(Scene opens up with the camera zooming into the backyard.)
Phineas: So, Ferb, what do you wanna do today?
(Ferb shrugs.)
Phineas: What about Perry, what does he want to do?
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: Well, he's a platypus, they don't do much. I for one, am starting to get bored, and boredom is something of up with which I will not put! The first thing they're gonna ask us when we get back to school is "what did we do over the summer?". I mean, no school for three months. Our life should be a roller coaster! And I mean a good roller coaster, not like that one we rode at the state fair.
(Flashback on a roller coaster at the state fair. It goes over one tiny hill then ends.)
Fair Worker: Please exit to the left.
(End flashback.)
Phineas: Man, that was lame. Why, if I built a roller coaster, I would... (Gets idea; angelic chorus plays) That's it! I know what we're gonna do today!
Linda: Phineas, Ferb. I'm gonna pick up a few things. You boys stays out of trouble, okay?
Phineas: Okay mom. (At Ferb) We're gonna build a roller coaster!
(Linda gets into the car)
Candace: I'm in charge, right? You did tell them I'm in charge?
Linda: Relax, Candace, nobody has to be in charge.
Candace: But what if there's a emergency?
Linda: Like what?
Candace: What if a... What if a satellite falls out of orbit and crashes into the house? (smiles)
Linda: If that happens, you're in charge.
Candace: Yes!
Candace: (she enters into the backyard) Mom says I'm in charge, conditionally.
(Phineas and Ferb are working on something.)
Phineas: Whatever.
Candace: Wait a minute, what are you doing?
Phineas: Homework.
Candace: It's summer.
Phineas: That's cool, you wait till the last minute then.
Candace: Well, I'm watching you. (Goes through the door) And I'm in charge, conditionally!
(Candace walks into the house and the phone rings, which she answers)
Candace: Hello? Oh, hi, Stacy! No, I can't get to the mall right now. Mom just went to the store, she left me in charge, well, you know, conditionally.
(Phineas and Ferb walk past with lots of wooden planks)
Candace: And if you go, can you see if Jeremy is there? No, no, he's the cute one that works at Mr. Slushy Burger.
(Phineas and Ferb walk past again, with steel beams)
Candace: Yeah, he totally smiled at me the last time I was there. I just about died. No, I told you I can't, I'm watching my brother and step-brother.
(Phineas and Ferb walk past with sinks and toilets)
Candace: Yeah, and they never get into trouble, 'cause Mom never catches them. One of these days though, I'm going to see that she catches them red handed.
(Phineas and Ferb walk past again, with a flamingo and a lion that roars loudly.)
Candace: Will you hold it down, I am trying to use the phone! (at Stacy) Mom left me in charge, so there will be no shenanigans today. What are doing right now? Why do you ask? What do you mean you can see it from your house? See what?!
(Candace runs out to the backyard, she stares in shock upon seeing the rollercoaster, along with horror music)
Candace: Phineas, what is this?!
Phineas: Do you like it?
Candace: Ooh, I'm gonna tell Mom, and when she sees what you're doing, you are going down. (runs off) Down! Down! Down! D-O-W-N, down!
(Phineas and Ferb look blankly while she walks away)
Phineas: We're gonna need a blowtorch and some more peanut butter.
(Candace takes her bicycle and rides away.)
Isabella: Hey Candace, is Phineas... home?
Candace: Down, down, I say!
(Isabella walks into the backyard.)
Isabella: (hearts in eyes) Hey Phineas.
Phineas: Hey Isabella.
Isabella: Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Building a roller coaster.
Isabella: In your backyard?
Phineas: Some of it.
Isabella: Wow. Isn't that kind of impossible?
Phineas: Some might say.
Isabella: Hey, Ferb.
(Ferb waves with the hammer.)
Isabella: Does your step-brother ever talk?
Phineas: Ferb? He's more of a man of action.
(Ferb hits the nail and then his nose.)
Isabella: I was gonna go to the pool, you wanna go swimming?
Phineas: Kind of in the middle of something here.
Isabella: Oh, right. Okay, I'll see you later then. (leaves)
Phineas: Okay. (at Ferb) Hey Ferb! You got enough rivets up there?
(Ferb gives a thumbs up showing they have rivets.)
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?
(Perry walks around the corner of the house. He jumps up, puts on a fedora and walks into a hole in the wall. He goes down a lift, into a lair, where he gets an "Incoming Message".)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. The evil Dr. Doofenshmirtz is up to his old tricks. For reasons unknown to us, he bought up 80% of the country's tin foil. I want you to get over to his hideout right away. Find out what he's up to and put a stop to it. As always Agent P, it is important that your cover identity as a mindless domestic pet remains intact. Now, get out there. We're all counting on you.
(Agent P jumps into a platypus-themed hovercraft, and flies tough a tunnel. He leaves through a stone and holds his fedora down to hide from Phineas and Ferb.)
Phineas: So, the way I see it, the fuel rockets kick in at the mall's parking lot, then we release the snakes during the corkscrew at the interstate. I'm gonna go get the snakes.
(Ferb puts on his mask and starts using the blowtorch.)
(Candace runs into the store)
Candace: Mom! You gotta come home, right now.
Linda: Did a satellite crash into the house?
Candace: No, no, no. You gotta see what Phineas and Ferb are doing.
Linda: Seems like we've had this conversation before.
Candace: What do you mean?
Linda: I seem to recall you telling me that the boys were training monkeys to juggle bicycles, and when I come home, there was a stunning lack of monkeys.
Candace: I still don't know how they cleaned that up so fast.
Linda: So, what's the emergency this time?
Candace: They're building a roller coaster!
Linda: Candace, seriously, isn't Phineas a little young to be a roller coaster engineer?
(Phineas talks to a man in a car factory)
Factory Manager: Aren't you a little young to be a roller coaster engineer?
Phineas: Yes, yes I am.
Factory Manager: Well, I must say, I'm very impressed, the forms all seems to be in order, although I'd never seen them filled out in crayon before. So, if there's anything I can get you, anything at all, just let me know.
Phineas: Do you think we could borrow one of those gadgets?
(A robot arm fixing a car is shown)
(Phineas and Ferb is riding the roller coaster that builds by the robot arm.)
Phineas: Now, this is the life.
(The camera zooms in on Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated.)
(Agent P swings into the building)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus, what an unexpected surprise. And by unexpected, I mean: completely expected!
(Doofenshmirtz presses a button, which activates arms that grabs Agent P.)
Doofenshmirtz: I, Doctor Heinz Doofenshmirtz, have covered the entire eastern seaboard in tin foil, and when I put my giant magnet, next to my genius, Magnetism Magnifier, I will pull the East, in westerly direction, thereby reversing the rotation of the earth. You may ask yourself, why would he do this? What could he possibly have to gain? Well, let me just answer that question, I haven't really worked on all the bugs yet. I mean, tin foil alone costs a lot.
(Back at the store)
Candace: But Mom, I'd tell you, they're building  it, and it's huge!
(Ferb puts up a poster, Candace comes over to read it.)
Candace: "Phineas and Ferb present the Coolest Coaster Ever now open"? Mom! (runs off)
Pedro: Phineas and Ferb got a roller coaster? You think we get a discount if we bring the flier?
Another kid: Maybe we better take it.
(They take it with them just as Candace brings Linda over.)
Candace: (Gestures toward the empty post, head turned away) There, look, look, look, see? I told you I'm not crazy, I told you!
Linda: (dryly) And you're not crazy because...?
(Candace turns toward the post where the poster was and screams.)
Linda: I see your point, Candace. No crazy person would scream at a post like that. I'll be at the dairy section if you wanna come yell at some cheese, or anything. (leaves)
(At the Flynn-Fletcher house, where the start of the coaster and a stage is. Ferb lets the kids into a tent and walks onto a stage up to the microphone as if he's about to speak, then steps out of the way as Phineas comes up. He grabs the microphone as disco lights shine and rock music plays.)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, children of all ages! May I present to you a spectacle most of the morning in the making: The Coolest...Coaster...Ever!!!
(Ferb reveals the coaster. A bird files into it.)
Phineas: So, who wants to go first?
(Everyone raises their hands.)
(On the rollercoaster...)
Phineas: To fasten, insert the tab into the metal buckle. To release, just pull back on the -- oops.
(Phineas drops the safety belt.)
Phineas: Well, you get the picture. Well, that's about it, enjoy the ride.
(The car goes over the top, and stops, viewing the long drop.)
Phineas: You guys all signed the waivers, right?
(Down it goes; the car goes around the coaster, on the track. Everyone screams.)
(Going through the drop of snakes)
Phineas: Relax, they're just rubber!
(The car goes into a bucket of mud, then exits. Later, it goes through a car wash, to be cleaned from the mud.)
Phineas: Hey, look, there comes the AH-AH-AH-AH!
(The track is going up and down repeatedly, creating four "AH"s.)
(The car zooms around the Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated building.)
Doofenshmirtz: ...I really make of my money back, I-I-I want a really spacey real estate, and sell it again.
(Agent P sends a screw at Doofenshmirtz, which he ducks for.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha, you missed!
(The screw flies to the roof and hitting a line, which throws it back at Doofenshmirtz's foot.)
Doofenshmirtz: Aaaoow!! Ow, Ow, Ow, Aaooww!
(Doofenshmirtz jumps around and accidentally releases Agent P, who quickly attacks him.)(Agent P hits Doofenshmitz's foot.)Aaaoow!! (During the fight, Doofenshmirtz activates the Magnetism Magnifier.)
Doofenshmirtz: Now you are too late. Quake in your boots and watch helplessly, as the unimaginable electromagnetic forces, pull the eastern seaboard, thereby reversing the rotation of the--
(All the tin foil releases from the buildings)
Doofenshmirtz: Well...that didn't work.
(The tin foil forms into a giant ball, flying through the air)
Doofenshmirtz: And now, we have a two ton ball of tin foil traveling 200 miles per hour directly at us! Quickly, we must separate the magnet from the Magnifier before it's too late!
(At the store)
Linda: Now I know I have that club card in here somewhere. I always have it with me, but my purse is a disaster area, you know how it is.
(Candace goes outside and sees the coaster)
Candace: Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! Mom? Mom!? (She rushes off.)
(Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated building)
Doofenshmirtz: It's no use, it's no use, we are doomed!
(Agent P sees a helicopter. He jumps onto the magnet and fires a grappling hook at it. He quickly wraps some of the rope around the magnet. The helicopter flies off, taking the magnet with it.) 
Doofenshmirtz: You did it! You saved us, Perry the Platypus! (The ball of tin foil crashes through the building.) Curse you, Perry the Platypus!
(The magnet pulls a piece of the Magnetism Magnifier onto it, and gets stuck on the coaster, which then follows the helicopter into the sky.)
(Candace pulls Linda into the parking lot, not noticing the coaster has been removed.)
Candace: Look, look, look, see?
Linda: (pause) Okay, I give up, what am I supposed to be looking at?
Candace: (turns to see the empty parking lot) No!! It's not POSSIBLE!!!
Linda: (going back inside) I'm gonna go get the cart.
Candace: IT WAS RIGHT HERE AND IT WAS HUGE!!! (sees the rollercoaster fly away) Mom!
Linda: (walks past, taking her cart) Time to go. I've got frozens.
Candace: Okay, so you think that Phineas and Ferb are still under that stupid tree in the backyard, right?
Linda: Well, yes, that would be my guess.
Candace: Fine, then lets go home. Now! (She pushes her.)
(Agent P sees that the helicopter is smoking and cuts the rope. He drops down onto the coaster and in the cart, right behind Phineas and Ferb.)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: Nice hat, Isabella.
(Isabella takes off Agent P's fedora and looks at it, confused.)
(The car goes to the end of the track and flies onto a construction area and flings into the air.)
Phineas: Funny, I don't remember this in the blueprints.
(An airplane picks up the car by the tail)
Phineas: And I'm sure this is new.
(Candace sees the airplane from Linda's car.)
Candace: Hehehehehehehehehehe!
Linda: I worry about you sometimes, Candace.
(The coaster car drops down and onto the Statue of Liberty, bending and throwing it to the woods. It lands on a pine tree which bends so they end up in front of Mr Slushy Burger.)
Employee: Welcome to Mr. Slushy Burger, may I take your order?
Phineas: Anyone want fries?
(Before taking any orders, the tree bends back and throws them to France, Paris)
French Man: Croissant?
Phineas: Anyone want a... (French accent) "quasson"?
(The car gets flung into orbit)
Singing Voice: ♪ Aahh-Aahh-Aaahhh ♪
(A satellite flies by)
Phineas: You know, if that thing crashes into earth, Candace is in charge.
(The car suddenly falls down towards earth, towards the Tri-State area. The front of the car begins to burn like a meteor.)
Phineas: We should have charged more.
(Linda pulls the car on the driveway and Candace jumps out)
Linda: Okay, we're here, are you happy now, Candace?
(Horror music plays; Candace opens the gate to the backyard and doesn't see Phineas or Ferb.)
Candace: Yes. (At Linda) See Mom, I told you they weren't there!
(Candace opens the gate and gestures toward the tree with her eyes closed, as we hear a sound of leaves rustling. Linda pokes her head through the gate opening and smiles.)
Linda: Oh, hi boys.
(Candace opens her eyes and her mood changes to shock; cut to under the tree to show Phineas and Ferb are here.)
Phineas: Hi Mom.
Linda: Come on Candace, help me with the groceries. (goes off)
Candace: But, but, but, but, but, but, but... (Continues under)
Linda: (comes back) Let's go. (pulls her away)
(Kids drop down from the tree.)
Kid: Hey Phineas, that was great.
Pedro: Way too cool.
Third kid: That was awesome! Can we do it again?
Phineas: Sorry, only one ride per customer.
(Isabella comes down from the tree.)
Isabella: That was great, Phineas. So, what are you gonna do tomorrow?
Phineas: Don't know yet.
Isabella: (pets Perry) Maybe you could teach Perry some tricks.
Phineas: Well, he is a platypus, they don't do much.
Ferb: They're the only mammals to lay eggs.
Phineas: ...Maybe he'll lay an egg.
Isabella: Cool, see you tomorrow. (goes to the gate) It really was the coolest coaster ever. You guys makes a great team.
Phineas: Well, a brother is a brother, but I couldn't have asked for a better one than Ferb. You know what I mean?
(Ferb burps rudely)
Phineas: Oh-ho-ho, man! I could smell the peanut butter!
Isabella: Well, that was impressive. See you, guys. (leaves)
Phineas: So, what should we do tomorrow? There's a world of possibilities. (pause) Maybe we should make a list!
(The coaster car explodes in the tree, a car alarm and a dog barking can be heard.)
Candace: (from inside) Mom!!
Linda: (from inside) Give it a rest, Candace!
(The tin foil ball rolls in the background.)

End Credits
(Song: "Perry the Platypus")
Male Singer: ♪ He's a semi-aquatic, egg-laying mammal of action ♪
Backing scat: ♪ Dooby dooby doo-bah ♪
♪ Dooby dooby doo-bah ♪
Male Singer: ♪ He's a furry little flatfoot, who'll never flinch from a fray........! ♪
♪ He's got more than just mad skill, ♪
Female Singer: ♪ Wah-ah-ah ♪
Male Singer: ♪ He's got a beaver tail and a bill ♪
Female Singer: ♪ Ah-ah ♪
Male Singer: ♪ And the women swoon whenever they hear him say: ♪
(Perry chatters, women faint)
Male Singer: ♪ He's Perry! Perry the Platypus! ♪



(Scene opens up showing a bird flying, then burns.)
Stanky Dog: This is Stanky Dog comin' to you on the hottest of the summer! Unless you live at the beach, I say take it easy and do nothin' today. Yup, just find yourself a shady tree, and maybe an aquatic mammal of some sort, and blow the whole day off.
Phineas: Come on, Ferb. If we let a little heat stop us from having the best day ever, then the morning DJs win.
Linda: Ooh, boy, it's hot today! So what are you up to?
Phineas: We're making our own beach, right here in the backyard.
Linda: (Oblivious) Oh, how cute. Well, I'm off to my spa day. You boys behave yourselves and don't bother your father. He's finally cleaning out the basement. (Leaves)
Candace: Bye, Mom! Yes! You heard her. We can't bug dad which makes me in charge... by default. (pauses) Carry on.
Phineas: We're gonna need more sand. Hey, where's Perry?

Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. Lawn gnomes across the Tri-State Area are disappearing, leaving thousands of gardens unprotected from the evils of black magic. We suspect Doofenshmirtz. Get right on it.

Contractor: Aren't you a little young to be a landscape contractor?
Phineas: Yes, yes I am.
Isabella: (Offscreen, dreamy look and voice) Hi, Phineas. (Walks up to him)
Phineas: Oh, hey Isabella.
Isabella: Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Building a beach. Check it out.
(Ferb is shown posing on a giant sprinkler.)
Isabella: Can me and the Fireside girls be lifeguards? We need to earn our Aquatic-Safety badges.
Phineas: Sure.
Candace: I mean, I've been a friend of Suzy's longer than Katie, so I should've been invited to that party first. I don't care if they're lab partners! We're locker neighbors. And locker neighbors trumps lab partners any day. (Gasps) Sorry Stacy. Gotta go.
Phineas: Welcome to our beach.
Candace: Hah! You call that a beach? This is WAY below your usual standard. This isn't even worth a call to mom. You know, if you guys ever want to be popular, you're gonna have to stop playing in sandboxes. (Gets hit by a beach ball) Hey!
Phineas: So Candace, what do you think?
Candace: That's it! I'm calling Mom. (dials the phone)
Stacy: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Jenny? Stacy?
Jenny: You never told us you have a beach in your backyard!
Stacy: You're going to be the most popular girl in the neighborhood.
Candace: I will?
Stacy: I just saw Jeremy and his buddies with their surf boards.
Candace: Jeremy's here? (Panting, drops phone) Gotta go! (Zips off)

♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (chuckles) Yes, yes! Just look at the bounty of gnome riches! Oh, this is a strange one. Wait, who are you? ... A platypus? ... PERRY THE PLATYPUS?! You are mine now! (Presses button, garage door opens) Oh no, wait, wait, wait. That was the garage door opener. You are mine now! (Presses button, large monitor activates) And that was the TV remote. I've got to start labeling these things. Aha! YOU are mine NOW! (Laughs maniacally) Finally, I will rid myself of you! (brings out another control) But first, turn your attention to the giant screen and... (the garage door closes) Hmm, maybe I need to turn the cable on first?
(Cuts to the backyard beach.)
Phineas: Let's get this beach party started!
(Song: "If Summer Only Lasted One Day")
♪ Well we'll wake up early and wax our surfboards down! ♪
♪ (Hit the beach, yeah we'll hit the beach) ♪
♪ Throw our board shorts on and head for surfin' town ♪
♪ (we'll hit the beach, yeah we'll hit the beach) ♪
Phineas: Hey, look! I can see our house from up here!
Candace: (Coconut falls) Oh! (Falls on crab, Groaning)
Crowd: How low can you go? How low can you go?
Dancer: Look! So that's how low you can go. We've been asking that question for generations!
Candace: What? What's everybody looking at?
Dancer: For winning the limbo contest, you are now officially crowned Queen Wahini of the beach! All hail Queen Wahini!
Candace: (overjoyed) I can't believe it!
(Song: "Backyard Beach")
Ferb: ♪ Listen up people and I'll teach ya ♪
♪ 'Bout Phineas and Ferb and the backyard beach-a, ♪
♪ Every morning, Phineas, he gonna say (Say!) ♪
♪ "Brother, whatcha gonna do today?" ♪
♪ Now you see we're having fun, playing under the sun, ♪
♪ And get in line, get in line, 'cause the wet ski's running ♪
♪ A backyard beach, a backyard beach ♪
♪ Nothing's outta reach, we got the backyard beach ♪
♪ You can change in the broken hut, ♪
♪ Drink out of a coconut, Three games for a token, but the rest is free ♪
♪ You got skiing, parasailing, ♪
♪ Surfing and a-flailing, ♪
♪ Your contacts need saline, ♪
♪ Or else, you can't see ♪
♪ Got the backyard beach, a backyard beach ♪
♪ Nothing's out of reach, we got the backyard beach ♪
♪ Got the backyard beach, a backyard beach, ♪
♪ Don't fall into the breach, got the backyard beach! ♪
Candace: I've never been happier in my entire life!
(Cuts to Linda at the spa, she takes cucumber slices off her eyes.)
Linda: Something is very wrong. Not a single call from Candace. (Checks her phone) Not even a text message. Oga, hose me down. I'm going home.
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, I think I finally got the right one. Now, Perry the Platypus, (Shines flashlight on him) you will finally understand...my PAIN! (presses remote)
(Flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: (narrating) Back in Gimmelshtump in the days of my youth, the Doofenshmirtzs' were a proud family. But those were lean times for my father and our beloved lawn gnome was repossessed. Who would protect our zatzenfruit garden from those witches, spells and wood trolls? From a tender age, my father decided that it would be me.
Mr. Doofenshmirtz: Bewege dich nicht! ("Don't move!")
Doofenshmirtz: (narrating) While the other children played Kick-the-Schtumpel and eat Doonkelberries, I would stand for hours.
Mr. Doofenshmirtz: Bewege dich nicht!
Doofenshmirtz: All through the cold night as the Spitzenhounds howled, my only companion was the moon. And my neighbor Kenny.
Mr. Doofenshmirtz: (narrating) Bewege dich nicht!
Doofenshmirtz: And since my lawn gnome was taken away from me, I will destroy every lawn gnome in the entire Tri-State Area! Behold, the Destruct-inator! And now, Perry the Platypus, to activate my creation! (pushes a button and opens Perry's trap) NOOOO!
(Cut to the beach)
Stanky Dog: Surf contest!
Buford: Out of my way, Dinner-bell.
Phineas: Hello, Buford. Perhaps you missed the sign.
Buford: (reads the sign) "No Bullying, No Yodeling"?
Man: (Austrian accent) I don't like this any more than you do.
Stanky Dog: First up in the surf contest is Bobby Nelson. Oh! And Nelson eats it on five-footer! And there's Django Brown shooting the curl, and here comes Buford Van Stomm! Ohh! He pummels Brown with a Philadelphia traffic stomp! And now he's got him in a Half-Nelson, now a Full-Nelson, oh! And now he's actually beating him with Bobby Nelson! Here's the scores from our judges. And Buford doesn't like it one bit. (Buford smashes the table with Bobby) Next up is Phineas Flynn, and it's great to see a young surfer show such confidence. Uh-oh, what's this? (Buford splashes through the holographic Phineas) Oh, those kids today and their holographic projections. He's in the pipeline, now he's hangin' ten! He's hanging twenty! He's hangin' thirty-two! Now he's just hangin'! The crowd loves it! I don't think there's a name for that! The crowd is doing the wave, and Phineas is surfing it! Let's go to the judges.10 to the 5th power, infinity, and oh! It seems Phineas Flynn's radical surfing has made judge #3 re-think Einstein's theory of relativity! Cowabunga, laws of nature!
(Cut to Candace and Jeremy dancing.)
Candace: So, are you having fun?
(The music changes)
(Song: "The Moment Has Arrived (Our Song)")
♪ Girl, the moment has arrived ♪
♪ I can see, although there is no light, ♪
♪ The music, beats throughout the night ♪
♪ And our love's in sight... ♪
(In the middle of the song)
Candace: Eee... (Cell phone rings) just one second. (dreamily, on phone) Hellooooo?
(Cut to Linda in the car, she gets shocked by this.)
Linda: Uh, Candace? Is everything okay?
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: Ohh, everything is just wonderful...
(Cut back to Linda, she gets shocked again.)
Linda: And...Phineas and Ferb? What are they doing?
(Cut back to Candace as Phineas surfs in the background.)
Candace: Ohh, such wonderful things...
(Cut back to Linda, she gets shocked once more.)
Linda: Candace, honey, I'm coming home.
(Needle scratch, cut back to Candace.)
Candace: Wait, WHAT?
Linda: (On phone) I'm right around the corner; I'll be there in two minutes.
Candace: Wait! No mom, you can't! (Linda turns off the phone.) Oh, wait, wait! Uhh... (at Jeremy) Stay right there! (runs off) I've got to stop her! (Looks out the backyard gate) Oh, no, no, no, no... (Linda arrives) Mom, Mom, pleeaaasee, Mom! Go away! Don't come in!
(Underground, the fight resumes. Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz into a lever, switching it to "Blow" forming a mountain in the middle of the ocean.)
Isabella: Is that a volcano?
(Volcano blows up)
Stanky Dog: GNOOOOOMES!!! (Gnome hits him) Oof!
Man: Run for your lives!! It's gnome-ageddon!!!
Man #2: Who's protecting our gardens?!!
(Cut to Linda)
Linda: Candace, tell me the truth. What is going on here?
Candace: (Sighs, talking fast) Phineas and Ferb built a beach in the backyard, just like they said they were going to. But instead of just a cute little beach in a sandbox; it turned out to be this absolutely huge beach, with a coastline, and palm trees, and a pier, and hula dancers, and water skiers, and tiki huts, and dolphins, and dancing, and surfing, and everybody from the neighborhood showed up-

Doofenshmirtz: Oof!
Candace: ...and then I was just about to share a smoothie with Jeremy when a coconut dropped on my head, and ...and just for a moment, it seemed that the wily Buford would steal away the coveted surfing trophy from under the noses of our heroes...then I can only continue my benign reign and spread love, happiness and ultimate popularity throughout my kingdom! If you would just let me have my moment!
Phineas: Oh, there you are Perry.
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: Well everybody, looks like that's all for today!
Crowd: Phineas and Ferb! (X3)
Candace: If you don't believe me, go see for yourself.
(Linda enters the backyard)
Phineas: That was great.
Linda: Hey, boys.
Phineas: Hey, mom.
Linda: So how was your day at the beach?
Candace: Wait, wait, my kingdom...my Jeremy...it was all so beautiful...! (panics, at Phineas and Ferb) WHAT HAVE YOU DONE TO MY PARADISE?! (pants)
Linda: Candace, honey, I think it's time to get you out of the sun for a little while. (she and Isabella leads Candace away.)
Phineas: I think she had fun.
(Song: "If Summer Only Lasted One Day")
♪ If Summer only lasted one day! ♪
♪ (Summer only lasted one day!) ♪

Stanky Dog: Stanky Dog here with a special shout-out to my two new pals, Phineas and Ferb, for hosting a beach party that was hot, hot, hot. And speaking of hot, slather on the sunscreen listeners, cause tomorrow's weather calls for another scorcher.
Ferb: With a slight chance of scattered lawn gnomes.
(Phineas laughs.)

End Credits
(Song: "Perry the Platypus (song)")
♪ He's a semi-aquatic, egg-laying mammal of action! ♪
♪ (Dooby dooby doo-bah) (X2) ♪
♪ He's a furry little flatfoot, who'll never flinch from a fray-ay-ay! ♪
♪ He's got more than just mad skill, ♪
♪ (Wah-ah-ah) ♪
♪ He's got a beaver's tail and a bill! ♪
♪ (ah-ah) And the women swoon whenever they hear him say! ♪
(Perry chatters, women faint)
♪ He's Perry! Perry the Platypus! ♪



(Scene opens up with a kid singing off-key on a stage.)
Kid: ♪ I met my love in a- OW! ♪
Phil: Oh, boy! Did that kid stink or what? But maybe YOU'VE got what it takes to be: The Next...Super...American...Pop Teen...Idol Star! Auditions open today at the Googolplex Mall in beautiful downtown Danville.
(Cuts to the dining room)
Candace: Auditions! Today?!
Announcer: Yes, today! At two o'clock sharp.
Candace: (Grabs the TV and kisses it) I gotta tell Stacy! (Runs, bringing the TV with her and falls)
Phineas: That pop star stuff might be fun at first, but then you'd be stuck with a dead end job. Too bad you can't just do it once and move on.
Linda: Well, what you're talking about is a one-hit wonder.
Phineas: One-hit wonder? What's that?
Linda: Well, a musical act goes to the top of the charts with a catchy tune and meaningless lyrics.
(Song: "I'm Lindana and I Wanna Have Fun!")
Singers: ♪ She's Lindana! ♪
Lindana: ♪ I'm Lindana and I wanna have fun! ♪
Singers: ♪ She wants to have fun ♪
Lindana:♪ I'm Lindana and I wanna have fun! ♪
Singers: ♪ She's Lindana ♪
Lindana: ♪ I'm Lindana and I wanna have fun! ♪
Singers: ♪ She wants to have fun ♪
Lindana: ♪ I wanna, wanna, wanna have ♪
Singers and Lindana: Fun fun fun!
(In the middle of the song)
Linda: (voiceover) Then they throw a big diva tantrum, lose their label, then fade to obscurity. Before they know it, their song ends up as: elevator music. Years later, they have a reunion concert... and after that, they never sing again. And no one...remembers them. (tears up, but quickly wipes away tears) Not that I would know anything about that.
Phineas: (writing) A one-hit wonder... (Shows checklist, listing in order: Hit record, Diva tantrum, Elevator music, Reunion tour) Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today.
(Ferb strums a guitar.)
(In Candace's room)
Candace: But Stacy, what am I going to sing?
Stacy: Hello, what are you gonna wear?
Candace: Hmmm...
(Cuts to Candace wearing a blue gown.)
Candace: What do you think?
Stacy: Too much. (Candace wears a bikini; now offscreen.) Too little. (Candace wears a pinafore.) Ugh, too clean. (Candace wears torn cords and a hippie t-shirt.) Too dirty. (Candace wears a street clothing.) Too street. (Candace wears a goth suit.) Too goth. (Cut to her.) Where'd you get that?
(Candace wears a Lindana costume.)
Candace: My mom's closet. You like it?
Stacy: Nah, too retro.
(Candace tries more other outfits: a construction uniform, indian clothes, cowgirl duds, biking clothes, a sailor suit, a gorilla costume, a spacesuit, a clown costume, and finally ends up with her trademark clothing.)
Stacy: Perfect!
Candace: Nice, huh?
Stacy: Yeah, you should've tried that on first.
Candace: Let's go!
(They pass by Phineas and Ferb in their bedroom; Phineas is on the floor writing.)
Phineas: "Chika, chika, choo...wah". Meaningless lyrics done. How's the catchy tune coming along?
(Ferb presses a key on the computer keyboard, producing a piano sound in the key of D.)
Phineas: Excellent! We'll be done by lunch! Hey, where'd Perry go?
(Perry flushes himself in the toilet and then swims over his headquarters.)
Major Monogram: Hello? Hello-oo? Anybody there?
(Perry crashes down, full of water)
Oh, good morning Agent P. We just received word that Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been buying up construction toys at an alarming rate. We need you to find out what he's up to and put a stop to it.
(Perry salutes and leaves with his scooter, and stops at the red light. Linda's car stops beside him, and she glances; then when she realized it, Perry puts a pair of Groucho glasses on and Linda just shrugs. The green light then appears and he zooms away.)
♪ (Perry)! ♪
(At the mall)
Linda: We'll meet back in the entrance in an hour.
Candace: Come on, Stacy! We gotta hurry so we could get a spot in li -- yayaya. (realized the line's too long) I've never sang in front of so many people!
Stacy: Uh, Candace? (shows her a LOT more people in the audience)
Candace: (gasps) I can't do this.
Stacy: Oh yes, you can! You're not a quitter; you're a fighter!
Candace: I am?
Stacy: Sure you are! You're a lean, mean, singing machine!
(Candace growls and punches the purse as in boxing.)
That's it, yeah! Now you're looking like a winner!
(Candace looks like a worn out tiger and drools. Jeremy walks by.)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace.
Candace: (arranges herself) And that is what a gorilla looks like when you try to take away its food. Oh! Hi, Jeremy! Are you auditioning too?
Jeremy: Nah. I came to see this hot new band called PFT. I downloaded their song this morning. It's tight! The hundredth contestant gets to sing onstage with the band!
Candace: Really? (She walks through the entrance and becomes the 100th contestant.)
Jeremy: Hey, looks like that's you.
Phil: Congratulations! You're the hundredth contestant! (Pulls her away)
(Cuts to Candace onstage.)
Phil: (over speaker) Ladies and gentlemen, this young lady has the honor of singing onstage with PFT. So now, the band you've been waiting for: Phineas and the Ferb-Tones!
(Phineas and Ferb are revealed.)
Candace: Phineas?!
Phineas: Candace? You're the hundredth contestant? How serendipitous. This'll be like a brother and sister thing! Now I'm assuming you've heard our hit single. I mean, who hasn't, right? It's a big hit. (gives her sheet music) So here's the words; don't worry if you get lost. The lyrics are meaningless anyway. I'll point when it's your turn.
(He steps forward as Candace stares.)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, the Ferbettes! I'm Phineas and this is Ferb, and we're gonna sing a song!
(Song: "Gitchee Gitchee Goo")
Phineas: ♪ Bow, Chicka, Bow-Wow! ♪
Ferbettes: ♪ That's what my baby says! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Mow-mow-mow! ♪
Ferbettes: ♪ And my heart starts pumping! ♪
Phineas: Chicka-Chicka, Choo Wah! ♪
Ferbettes: Never gonna stop!
All:♪ Gitchee Gitchee Goo means that I love you! ♪
Phineas: ♪ I said a Bow, Chicka, Bow-Wow! ♪
Ferbettes ♪That's what my baby says! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Mow-mow-mow! ♪
Ferbettes: ♪ And my heart starts pumping! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Chicka-Chicka, Choo Wah! ♪
Ferbettes: ♪ Never gonna stop! ♪
All: ♪ Gitchee Gitchee Goo means that I love you! ♪
Phineas: ♪ I said a Bow, Chika, Bow-Wow! ♪ Candace!
(The music abruptly stops. Candace looks at her music before throwing it aside.)
Candace: Wait a minute! What are you doing?
Phineas: I'm cuing you?
Candace: How'd you get a hit single?!
Phineas: Well, it wasn't easy. It took most of the morning and half a dozen phone calls. But if you're willing to put in the work-
Candace: That's it! I'm gonna tell Mom!
Phineas: Okay...tell her what?
Candace: (pauses) Ooh, I'm just gonna tell.
(She walks offstage; music resumes.)
Phineas and Ferbettes: ♪ Gitchee Gitchee Goo means that I love you! ♪
(Cuts to Linda in a store.)
Candace: Mom! Mom! Mom! Mom, you've gotta see this!
Linda: (with disdain) Let me guess. Is it unbelieva- (Candace pushes her) WOOAH!
Candace: Come on, come on, come on!
(Cuts to backstage.)
Ben Baxter: Hi, I'm Ben Baxter, Huge-O-Records. Why don't you come by my office in an hour and we can talk about your future.
Phineas: Future? Cool. He must be a psychic.
(Cut back to Candace and Linda.)
Candace: Come on, come on, come on! (They arrive at the stage; she presents a shadow that appears to be Phineas and Ferb's heads.) See?! There they are onstage!!!
Announcer: Ladies and gentlemen, once again... (Spotlight lights up.) Marty the Rabbit Boy and His Musical Blender!
(Marty the Rabbit Boy performs)
Linda: Hon, we're getting you an eye exam. (pulls her away)
Candace: No, no! Wait!
♪ Perry! ♪
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Ha ha, everything is ready!
(doorbell rings) Oh, what is it now? (opens the door and saw the disguised Perry) Oh, are you my new temp? Well, let me just get you up the speed. I know it's bit of a mess. I'm just putting the finishing touches of my latest maniacal plan. You see, in a few minutes, I will unleash an unprecedented reign of terror upon the entire... (holds a magnifying glass on the eastern coast of the U.S.) ...Tri-State Area! And Perry the Platypus will never be the wiser.(Perry removes the Groucho glasses) Perry the Platypus? You're a temp? Are times that hard?
(Candace exits the mall wearing glasses.)
Candace: Ugh! I told Mom I don't need glasses! (takes off glasses) What the --
(A PFT bus drives away)
Candace: Uh, No! No! Wait! Uggggg...
(Candace stops. She turns around, notices a PFT poster on a building and smiles.)
Candace: MMMMMOOOOM?!?
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incor-- ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Sorry, Perry the Platypus, but you are too late! (pushes a lever that makes the building alive as a robot)
(Cuts to Linda in a store.)
Linda: (wearing a jacket) Ooh, this one's nice.
Candace: Mom! Come here! You've gotta see this! (drags her out, setting off the shoplifting alarm)
Linda: Candace! I haven't payed for this yet!
Guard: Hey!
(The giant building robot wreaks havoc over the city)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha ha ha! When it comes to havoc, nobody wreaks like me!(Perry removes a metal cover of a storage) Wait, wait, wait, you're not supposed to touch that! (Perry removes a wire)Hey, hey, no fair!
(The robot almost steps over the building, but turns around)
(The PFT bus passes by)
Isabella: Wow, what a great painting! How did you get permission for that?
Phineas: Oh, they didn't mind. The building's scheduled for demolition.
(A man presses the lever of a dynamite block. The building gets demolished just as Candace drags her mom out.)
Candace: Seeeeeee??!!
(Linda does not answer. Candace turns and sees no building.)
Candace: AAAAHHHH!!
Guard: Uh, ma'am, you're gonna have to come back and pay for that.
Linda: (flatly) Yes of course, officer.
Candace: AAAAHHHH!!
Guard: Hey, weren't you Lindana?
Linda: Yes, I was! I can't believe you recognized me.
Guard: Well, I was a huge fan. (pauses, serious) You still have to pay for the jacket.
Linda: (flatly) I know.
Doofenshmirtz: Very clever, Perry the Platypus. I tried to ignore you, but you forced my hand.
(Pushes a button and traps Perry)
And now...I shall relax with a nice, tasty deli platter. Oh-ho-ho, where are my manners?
(Gives Perry his share) Here you go, Perry the Platypus. Care for some pepper? Just say when. (Continues to pour pepper) Anytime.
(At Huge-O-Records...)
Ben: (from inside) Boys, let me start by saying we love your act and we want to be... (cuts to the boardroom) ...in the Phineas and the Ferb-Tones business. And by the way, aren't you a little young to be pop stars?
(Pause)
Phineas: ...No.
(Another pause)
Ben: Well, okay then! We prepared to offer you a very lucrative contract if you'll just sign exclusively with us for your follow-up single.
Phineas: (suddenly angry) Follow-up single? (rips up the contract under the following) Who do you think we are, some two-bit hacks who will keep writing new songs just because you pay us obscene amounts of cash?! Phineas and the Ferb-Tones are strictly a one-hit wonder! (The band enters the elevator) Good day to you, sir!
(In the elevator, "Gitchee Gitchee Goo" plays as elevator music.)
Phineas: Diva tantrum, check. (Pauses, listens to the "Gitchee Gitchee Goo" elevator music) Elevator music, check.
(Ferb checks off "Elevator music; cut to the boardroom)
Ben: Ah, who needs 'em? We still got this video tape of their performance. We could do live CDs, DVDs, pod-casts, heck, we can digitally re-create their images to make our own sitcom! The Phineas and Ferb Show! We could squeeze twenty years of entertainment out of this one video tape.
Manager: (screams) That giant robot's coming right at us!
Doofenshmirtz: (still pouring pepper) Wow, you sure like a lot of pepper. I'm more of a paprika man myself. (Perry blows over the pepper, Dr. D coughs) It will take more than condiments to foil my brilliant plan!
(The robot sneezes them out, and they crash through the Huge-O-Records building)
Ben: The tape!
Doofenshmirtz: AAAAHHH!
(Perry loosens the tape's film and successfully lands)
Doofenshmirtz: AAAAAAAAHHHHH!!! (Lands on a soft mattress) Ooh! What an unbelievable stroke of luck! (The mattress folds in half) Oof! I'm okay! I'm still better than the... (gets stepped over by the robot) Curse you, Perry the Platypus!
(Below...)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry. (Perry chatters; a bus pulls up and they get on) Come on, guys. We still have one thing left to do.
(In Googolplex Mall)
Phil: And the winner of the day's "Next Super American Pop Teen Idol Star" is... (Screen zooms out to reveal:) Marty the Rabbit Boy and his Musical Blender! Oh, give him a hand! He's going to Hollywood!
(Pan to Candace moping on a bench; Jeremy walks over.)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. What's wrong?
Candace: I'm better than that guy. Oh, I should've taken blender lessons.
Jeremy: So why did you run off earlier?
Candace: My brothers. (sighs) They always ruin everything.
Jeremy: Well, you like to sing, right?
Candace: Yeah.
Jeremy: Then you shouldn't let your brothers' fun ruin your good time. You know, if you get a chance to sing, you oughta sing. I gotta go, I'll see you later. (Walks away)
(Music beats)
Phineas: (offscreen) Hey Candace. (Shows the stage for the PFT Reunion Concert) You're still the hundredth contestant, wanna come up and help us out?
(Candace walks onstage.)
(Song: "Gitchee Gitchee Goo")
Phineas: ♪ Bow, Chicka, Bow-Wow! ♪
Candace: ♪ That's what my baby says! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Mow-mow-mow! ♪
Candace: ♪ And my heart starts pumping! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Chicka-Chicka, Choo Wah! ♪
Candace: ♪ Never gonna stop! ♪
All: ♪ Gitchee Gitchee Goo means that I love you! ♪
Phineas: ♪ I said a Bow, Chicka, Bow-Wow! ♪
Candace: ♪ That's what my baby says! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Mow-mow-mow! ♪
Candace: ♪ And my heart starts pumping! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Chicka-Chicka, Choo Wah! ♪
Candace: ♪ Never gonna stop! ♪
All: ♪ Gitchee Gitchee Goo means that I love you! (X2) ♪
♪ Gitchee Gitchee Goo means: That I love you baby, baby, baby! ♪
Ferb: ♪ Baby-baby-baby-baby, ♪
Candace/Phineas: ♪ Gitchee Gitchee Goo means that I love you! ♪
(Crowd cheers)
Candace: That was great! I've been thinking of my brothers all wrong! They're not a nuisance. They're my ticket to-
Phineas: Thanks, you've been great! This is the last time we're ever gonna sing that song. We're retiring, good night!
(The band walks offstage; the lights switch off, leaving Candace in the dark.)
Mall Operator: (via loud speaker) The mall is now closed and will re-open at 9:00 A.M. tomorrow. Thank you for shopping with us.

End Credits
(Song: "I'm Lindana and I Wanna Have Fun!")
Singers: ♪ She's Lindana! ♪
Lindana: ♪ I'm Lindana and I wanna have fun... ♪
(remainder of lyrics under announcer's voice-over)
Singers: ♪ She wants to have fun ♪
Lindana: ♪ I'm Lindana and I wanna have fun! ♪
Singers: ♪ She's Lindana ♪
Lindana: ♪ I'm Lindana and I wanna have fun! ♪
Singers: ♪ She wants to have fun ♪
Lindana: ♪ I wanna, wanna, wanna have ♪
Singers and Lindana together: ♪ Fun fun fun! ♪
Lindana: ♪ I'm not Veronica or Alison or Donna ♪
♪ And I don't wanna scrub the sink or mow the lawn- ♪
Announcer: You loved her in the '80s. Get ready to love her again. Lindana's mega hit "I'm Lindana and I Wanna Have Fun", and been remixed and re-translated into your favorite languages: Portuguese! Dutch! Canadian! Japanese! Esperanto! Pig Latin! Dog! And everyone's favorite-
(Linda turns off TV)
Phineas: Hey, Mom. Whatcha watchin'?
Linda: Oh, nothing.
Singers: ♪ She wants to have fun! ♪
Lindana: ♪ I wanna, wanna, wanna have fun, fun, fun! ♪



(Scene opens up with camera zooming into the backyard.)
Phineas: So Ferb, what should we do today? I mean, besides giving Perry a bath.
(Both sniff, Perry chatters, race car sound)
Phineas: (peeking over the fence) What is that wonderful noise?
(Camera shows a car race miles from the house)
Awesome. Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
(They start to work on the car)
Candace: Oh, I have got to take a new picture of myself for my blog. I didn't realize mine is already a week old. (Takes a picture of herself) That's better.
(Candace walks off, but snaps back to the garage entrance as she notices the boys working on the car)
Candace: WHAT ARE YOU DOING TO MOM'S CAR?!
Phineas: We tricked it out!
Candace: You don't even know how to drive.
Phineas: Well, duh. That's why Ferb built this remote.
(Ferb activates the remote which activates the engine)
Candace: (deeply) Oh, you are so busted.
(she exits the room and starts opening and closing doors)
Candace: (opens door) Mom?! (closes door, opens another) Mom?! (closes door, opens another) Mom?! (closes door, reenters garage) Um, where's Mom? (smiles awkwardly)
Phineas: She's playing bridge at Mrs. Garcia-Shapiro's!
(Candace grins, then slips out. Ferb closes the hood)
(Scene shifts outside)
Candace: Heh, they won't get away with it this time!
(Candace goes to the Garcia-Shapiro household and rings the doorbell. Briefly, she turns her head to face the house, raising her eyebrows sneekly. Vivian comes out)
Vivian: Oh, Candace, dear. Bubela, how good to see you. What a coincidence. Do you know your mom is here?
Candace: Mmm-mmm. Yeah, I do, Mrs. Garcia-Shapiro. I need to talk to her if you don't mind.
Vivian: Oy-vey. Look how tall you are now. You must've grown a couple of inches since the last time I've saw you.
Candace: That was last week, Mrs. Garcia-Shapiro.
Vivian: Well your mom's inside, dear. Where are your braces? I thought you were wearing braces.
Candace: Yeah. MOM! MOM! MOM! (runs inside)
(Cut to Linda playing Bridge)
Linda: What is it, Candace?
Candace: Oh, you have got to see what Phineas and Ferb are doing!
(Linda gives a bored blank expression)
(Car zooms past Phineas and Ferb four times. The first time, their hair is blown forward. The second, their hair is burst. Third, their hair is switched. Fourth, their hair is normal again)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb. What's the red button for?
(Car continues zooming, Ferb pushes the red button on remote)
Candace: MOOOOOOOOM!
(Explosion as the car blasts upward)
Linda: What is it? What do you want me to see?
Candace: (guestures toward the boys) Quick!
Phineas: Hi, Mom!
Linda: Hi, boys! (to Candace) Well, if that's all, I'll just be getting back to the game.
(Candace just stands there deadpanned. Just after Linda closes the door, the car thuds back onto the road)
Phineas: Good thing we've beefed up the suspension.
(Ferb makes the car spin)
Phineas: Woah! What else can it do?
Isabella: (Dreamy look and voice) Hi, Phineas.
Phineas: Oh, hi, Isabella.
Isabella: What'cha doin'?
Phineas: We're entering The Swamp Oil 500 today.
Isabella: Aren't you gonna need a pit crew?
Phineas: Do you know a pit crew?
Isabella: Well...I know a few people who work well together.
Phineas: Great! You're hired! See you at the track. (To Ferb) Hey Ferb, where's Perry?

(Scene shifts to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. The evil Dr. Doofenshmirtz is up to his old tricks. For reasons completely unknown, he's purchased a giant airship or blimp, as the kids say. Your mission is to find out why, and if necessary, put a stop to it.
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba Doo be doo be doo ba ♪
♪ Perry! ♪

(Scene shifts to the race track)
Isabella: (Dreamily) Hi, Phineas. I got your pit crew.
(Show the Fireside Girls lined up behind Isabella)
Phineas: Cool! See ya in the pits.
Isabella: Okay, girls. We're dealing with a 426 cubic inch, fully-blown V8, with hypo lifters, radical cam and a limited slip differential.
Gretchen: Would that be electronically fuel-injected?
Candace: Phineas?! PHINEAS! PHIN-E-AS!
Man: Hey! I can't hear the cars!
Jeremy: Hey, Candace! I didn't know you were a racing fan!
Candace: Jeremy. (Slaps) Who, me? Oh, yeah! Yeah, I'm a big fan of those, uh, uh...that red one is cute!
Jeremy: Oh, that's Billy Ray Digler's car. He's great.
Candace: Yeah, he's the best. That Billy Roy.
Jeremy: Billy Ray.
Candace: Billy Ray. I-I love it when he turns left... and then he turns... left again, and then-
Dave: And in the 3rd lane, the newcomers Team Phineas! Now is it just me, or does he look a little young to be behind the wheel of a 700 horse power racing machine?
Rick: Yes. Yes, he does.
Dave: And look, he's already got his own screaming fans!
Candace: (On screen) PHINEAS!
Phineas: Hey, Candace is rooting for us!
Jeremy: Candace, you're on the big screen!
Candace: (On screen, slow mo) PHINEAS!
Jeremy: And your little brother's gonna be on TV!
Candace: Phineas--? (sees him being interviewed) On TV? (Stands up) TV! That's it! They are so busted! Can you wait here for a second? (zips off, but comes back) Thanks. (zips off)
(Scene shifts to the Garcia-Shapiro house)
Linda: What is it, Candace? I'm right in the middle of a 3-No trump.
Candace: (on a payphone at the race) Turn on the TV!
Linda: All right. All right, Candace. This better be good.
(Linda presses a remote, the TV shows static)
Candace: (from the phone) Well? Well? Do you see it?
Linda: Just a second, honey.
Vivian: Turn on the cable box first.
Linda: Hmm. All right. (Presses another remote, ejecting a CD) Wait. 'Kay, that's not it. Um, is it this one? No, this is another phone.
♪ -Summer only lasts- ♪
Oh, I turned on the stereo!
Candace: (cringing) Mom, hurry up!
Linda: Okay, just a second! (Presses the right remote)
TV Narrator: Are you embarrassed about flaking? Itching? Peeling?
Linda: Candace, this is a dandruff commercial. Is there something you're trying to tell me?
(Scene immediately shifts to the race track. The race is about to start)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb. Are we good to go?
(Ferb gives a thumbs up)
Rick: And with the race about to start, there's the Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated blimp!
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus. I'm glad you're here. Actually, I was just getting ready to serve some PLATYPUS UNDER GLASS! You're just in time to witness my latest invention...my Deflate-inator Ray! Which I will demonstrate by deflating the tires of the Jefferson County Motor Speedway! After which, I will deflate everything in the Tri-State Area! That way, if anyone want's anything flated, they will have to talk to me.
(Scene shifts to the race track)
Candace: Phineas, you are in big trouble, mister--! (Cars zoom past her, leaving her burnt)
Jeremy: Candace, you got a little...
Photographer: (takes picture) Smile! Souvenir picture? Only a dollar.
(Candace looks at her picture. She is burnt and Jeremy is staring confused)
Candace: AAH! (shakes herself clean) Wait a second. (Grabs camera, runs off)
Photographer: Hey!
Candace: (Takes a picture of Phineas driving) Ee-ee-ee-ee... now, I gotcha!
Photographer: (Snatches picture) Hey, Missy. Two pictures, two bucks.
Candace: Oh, yeah, uh, I've only got a dollar, but uh, I just want the one. You can just tear the other one up, 'kay?(The photographer rips one picture)
Candace: (rides out on bike) I've got 'em, NOW! Heeheehee.
Rick: And on the fast on the inside lane is Number 42, Team Phineas!
Phineas: Hey, Ferb. Do you think we can get any more power? I mean, I know it's just a battery. But I was thinking: Let's open it up and see what this puppy can- (Classic car honking) Uh, Ferb? We're actually slowing down now. Ferb? Hello? (Car speeds up) OH YEAH! NOW THAT'S WHAT I'M TALKIN' ABOUT!
(Telephone rings)
Isabella: Hey, Ferb. We should bring Phineas in for a pit stop. All right, Fireside Girls, let's move, move, move!
(The girls work on fixing the car)
Isabella: That helmet looks so manly.
Phineas: Thanks.
Isabella: Hit it, Ferb.
(The car takes off)
I'm so proud of you girls. And the bow was a nice touch, Gretchen.
(Engine whirring)
(Scene shifts to the D.E.I blimp)
Doofenshmirtz: (Laughing) Listen to those fools, as they worship their candy-colored race car man. How about a little demonstration of my deflationary prowess? (Fires laser)
(Scene shifts to the race track)
Man #2: I got it! (Ball hissing, tires screeching)
Race Car Driver: AAH! (Tires screeching, rams a sign)
(Song: "Go, Go, Phineas")
(Crash)
Rick: The Team Phineas car is avoiding every obstacle! It's like he can see the whole darn track at once!
(Guitar solo)
Isabella/Fireside Girls: ♪ Go Phineas! Go, go Phineas! (X2) ♪
Phineas: OH YEAH!
Isabella/Fireside Girls: ♪ Go Phineas! Go, go Phineas! (X2) ♪
Racers: We're okay! (Car zooms by)
(Scene shifts to the Garcia-Shapiro house)
Candace: Well Mom, what do you think of this?
Linda: You've...looked better.
Candace: Huh? What do you mean--? (looks at picture, starts to cringe)
(Camera shows that Candace brought the picture of herself burnt. She screams loud and very long)
(Scene shifts to the D.E.I. blimp)
Doofenshmirtz: Already they fear me, listen to their screams, huh? Imagine the mayhem once my Deflate-inator ray is fully charged. (at the mouse in the machine) Run! Run like the wind, my little indentured rodent. And I will give you some cheese. Heh, I know I had some around here somewhere.
(Perry pulls out a briefcase filled with cheeses; Grabs stinky cheese and loads it onto a crossbow.)
Doofenshmirtz: I think there's some- There used to be some Roquefort around the back here. I don't...
(Perry fires the crossbow.)
(Mouse squeaking)
Doofenshmirtz: Hmm? AYYY! AY-AY-AY-AYYY! (Glass breaks) Agh! Oof! (Laser fires, Blimp deflating) Hmm. I suppose I should've seen that coming.
(Scene shifts to the Garcia-Shapiro house)
Candace: (from inside) But Mom, you've gotta believe me! (cuts inside) Wait a minute. I bet it's still on TV! (runs off)
Linda: (Flatly) That's good, Candace. Go watch a little TV.
(Candace turns on the TV, the screen shows Phineas winning the race. There is a flash, freeze-frame)
Dave: And look at this amazing finish.
Candace: (Stammering) Mom, come quick! Come look-look-look-look-look!!
Linda: All right! I'm coming! (stands up)
Candace: Ee-ee-ee-ee...
Dave: Oh no! A blimp is about to hit the broadcasting tower! Oh, the hu-
(The TV goes to static. Candace just sits there standing as Linda enters right on schedule.)
Linda: Ah-huh...?
Candace: Meap.
Linda: (leaving) Deal me back in, Viv.
(Scene shifts to the race track)
(Tires squealing, car zooms off)
Phineas: Hmm. Looks like we're walking.
Doofenshmirtz: AAH!
(Candace walks back to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: (Mimicking Linda) "Why don't you go back home, Candace?" "I'm busy with my bridge game, Candace?" She has no idea!! (echo)
(Candace gasps, then looks behind her to see the garage empty. Crickets chirp in the background, Candace smiles.)
Gotcha.
(Scene shifts to Perry and Doofenshmirtz fighting)
Doofenshmirtz: AHH-AHH-AHH-AHH-AHH! AAH!
(Beeping)
(Explosion, Perry blasts into space on the car)
(Back with Candace...)
Candace: (Runs up to Vivian's house and repeatedly knocks on the door hard) MOM! MOM! MOM! MOM! MOM!
Vivian: Oh, Candace, hello. I can't believe you grown so much, it's unbelievable--
Candace: MOM! (Goes to the living room) Mom, you've gotta see this! It's about your car!
Linda: (While Candace smiles) All right. (Candace drags her)
(the car is shown falling)
Candace: (literally pushes Linda across the street) Come on, come on, come on!
Linda: Candace, you're wearing out the heels of my shoes.
(In the garage, Candace opens the door from the kitchen, oblivious to the action)
Candace: See Mom?! Look, look! I told you--
Linda: (Gasps) But...who did this?
Candace: Phineas and Ferb.
Linda: You mean...they...?
Candace: (overlapping) Yeah, yeah, yeah! (laughs chaotically)
Linda: (overjoyed) They washed my car!?
Candace: (mood changing with each word) Yes!!--No--What?
(Her perspective, the car is back, clean with nothing on it. Perry walks by and chatters)
Linda: It's beautiful!
(For the rest of the scene, Candace stands deadpanned with her mouth open)
I gotta admit, I thought you we're exaggerating a bit, but this is really worth getting excited about!
Phineas: (walking in the background, trophy in hand) Hi, Mom, we're home!
Linda: Hey, boys! I saw what you did today.
Phineas: (Referring to the race) Yeah, how'd you like it?
Linda: I loved it! Now who wants some snacks?
(Rock theme)
Phineas: (offscreen) Thanks, Mom!
(Music stops)
Linda: (At Candace) Honey, close your mouth.
(Music resumes; iris out and Candace does not close her mouth on the still shot)

End Credits
(Song: "Go, Go, Phineas")
(Guitar solo)
Isabella/Fireside Girls: ♪ Go Phineas! Go, go Phineas! (X2) ♪
Phineas: OH YEAH!
Isabella/Fireside Girls: ♪ Go Phineas! Go, go Phineas! ♪



Scene opens up with a monster destroying the Tri-State Area.
Candace: "To think... To dream... Whether 'tis nobler to love, I know not." Ah, The Princess Sensibilities. My favorite play. What is going on out there?!
(Monster noises, Candace crushes monster set)
Would you keep it down out here?! You guys ruin everything! I am trying to practice the art of acting. And I will not be disturbed by your little movies!
Phineas: Not so little anymore. Last week our website got 176,000,000 hits.
Linda: Oh, sorry I'm late. They're filming down the street.
Candace: Filming? What What are they filming?
Linda: A movie version of the play The Princess Sensibilities.
Candace: (Gasps) I would be perfect for that part! I've been practicing it for my drama club all summer! I'm gonna get discovered!
Phineas: That's serendipitous. Hey, where's Perry?
(Cut to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: There you are, Agent P. There's something very strange going on with Dr. Doofenshmirtz. He's been very quiet lately. A little too quiet. I want you to find out what's not going on, and...uh...put a...stop..to it. I suppose. Good luck, Agent P.
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba doo be doo be doo ba, ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba doo be doo be doo ba, ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba ♪
♪ Agent P! ♪
(Cut to the producer's trailer)
Candace: There it is! Excuse me. Uh, Mr. Producer, sir?
Producer: I can't talk to you right now. My lead actress just quit!
Candace: Well sir, this is your lucky day! (Clears throat) I will replace her. Besides, I know her lines by heart. Listen. "To think, to dream, whether 'tis nobler to love, I know not."
Producer: Heh. That's not bad. And you know your lines. Mmm, I don't know.
Candace: I'll do it for free.
Producer: You're hired.
Candace: Really?
Producer: You bet! With the money I save, I'll be able to hire the hottest new directors in town. Hello?
(Cut to Candace at a spa getting a makeover.)
Candace: Wow! I could get used to this!
Man: Miss Candace Flynn, here's your contract and your bagel. This is Antoine, your dialog coach, Nikki, your swimming stand-in, and your personal trainers Olga and Chicago Joe.
Olga: Charmed, I'm sure.
Chicago Joe: Drop and give me 20!
Producer: Candace, baby! Let me introduce you to the directors of this film.
(Camera goes down)
Phineas: Hi, Candace.
Candace: Phineas and Ferb? What are you doing here?
Phineas: We're directing the movie. Our new agent arranged the whole thing.
Isabella: Look. My client gets 3% of the gross and a piece of the back end, or he walks. Yeah, that's right. You mess with the bull, you get the horns, buddy. (Phone rings) Hello? Syd, baby, you got that 3rd act in line yet?
Candace: Wait, wait! Don't you think they're a little young to be big-budget movie directors?
Producer: With 176,000,000 hits, they could be in diapers for all I care.
(Lyrical music plays as Candace puts on her costume. Record needle scratches as we stop to see her wearing a monster hat)
Candace: Phineas, I don't remember any monsters in The Princess Sensibilities.
Phineas: We just finished the rewrites this morning.
Candace: "The Curse of the Princess Monster"? That is not what I signed up for! Besides, I can't wear this! No one will see my face!
Producer: Yes, but in the end, the curse is lifted! And in your big dramatic scene, you will look stunning! This film could make you a star.
Candace: Really? A...a...star?
(Then we see Candace stepping out of a limo and see flashing paparazzi lights. Candace leaves her handprints on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Then we see Candace on a newspaper)
Man: Hey! Ugly monster! You're needed on the set!
Candace: I'm coming! (Music playing) Oof! Oof! Won't you stay on? Oof! Darn!
(Suspense music)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry breaks door)
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? Why do you keep breaking down my doors? Why don't you knock first? It's not even locked! This time, you'll pay. That's right, fork it over. What? Are you kidding me? This isn't just drywall, you know! It's solid oak! That's more like it. You can't just go busting into people's houses for no reason, you know. Besides, I've given up evil to pursue the art of cheese making. Do you like stinky Limburger? It's a Doofenshmirtz family recipe.
(Doofenshmirtz is laughing maniacally while milking a cow over a cauldron whilst the cow moos in confusion)
It's not ready yet. It still has to age for 58 and 1/2 years. (Watch ticking) But who's got that kind of time? Which is why I created: The Age Accelerator...Inator.
(Cut to a movie studio)
Phineas: Okay, Candace. This is a very important scene. It is nothing less than the emotional backbone of the whole film. Oh, and the villagers are coming at you with everything they've got.
(Movie slate slams)
Candace: Uh, what do mean the villa-
Phineas: Action! The air force!
Candace: (Grunting) Ugh! Ow! Ungh! Hey! Wait! Uh!
Phineas: The space armada from the planet plumbing supplies!
(Clattering)
Candace: (groans)
Phineas: Beautiful! That's a print!
Ginger: (Whispering)
Phineas: Oh. That's a little embarrassing. (On megaphone) Okay, people, nice rehearsal! Let's take it from the top!

(Movie slate slams; tropical music playing)
Candace: Wow! Is this banana hat for some cool tropical dance number?
Phineas: We're trying to come up with some exciting camera angles for the big chase scene. So we strapped a camera on to this starving monkey.
(An angry primate starts to chase Candace)
Candace: Aah! Wait! No! (TV static)

Phineas: (Laughing) Sorry that monkey cam didn't work out. We're gonna try it with Ferb this time. Now take this sandwich and remember, Ferb hasn't eaten lunch yet. (Ferb imitates the monkey while beginning to charge) Hold on tight.
Candace: AAH! Wait! NO! (TV static)

Phineas: Okay. In this scene, the monster; that's you, gets attacked by 800 cubic feet of rats, spiders, and snakes.
Candace: There is no way I am doing that!
Phineas: Relax. They're made out of rubber.
Candace: (Sighs)
Phineas: Well the snakes are rubber, anyway.
Candace: AAH! Get em' off me! Get em' off me! Get em' off me! Get em' off me! Get 'em off me! Get 'em off me! Get 'em off me!

Phineas: Okay. Candace, this is your beauty shot. The curse has been lifted, and you are no longer a monster. Now this scene, is what the heart wants, but the mind can't have. Take one.
Candace: "To dream... To be free of the curse."
Phineas: Beautiful. Keep going. (On megaphone) Cue the magical girly dust!
Candace: "Whether 'tis nobler to be loved..." Achoo! (Thud)
Phineas: (On megaphone) Cue wind machine!
Ferb: (Turns on a giant fan)
Candace: "TO BE CURSED... BY LOVE..." PHINEAS, MAKE IT STOP!
Phineas: CUT THE WIND MACHINE!
Ferb: (Turns off giant fan)
Candace: Oof!
Phineas: Okay. Drop the flower petals!
Candace: (Weakly) Whether 'tis no- (Sinks, toilets and pipes fall)
Phineas: Wrong prop. What the heck. Let's keep it!
(Sink falls)
Candace: Oof!
Phineas: Okay people, that's a wrap!
(Cut to the editing room)
Phineas: Here's your big dramatic scene, Candace.
Candace: (Panting) "To think... To dream-"
Phineas: Cut!
Candace: Huh? Oh, I'm sorry.
Phineas: Do it again!
Candace: "To think, to-to stink, to-to-"
Phineas: Cut!
Candace: This is horrible! I can't let anybody see this!
Phineas: That's what's called a rough cut. Ferb's gonna fix it in editing. Tighten up the dialogue, do a little voice modulation, play with the filters, and now take a look!
(Lyrical music plays as we see a real life castle, with a real Candace, saying her lines)
Ashley Tisdale: "To think, to dream, to be free of the curse."
Candace: I...I...I look beautiful!
Phineas: That's what they call "Movie Magic".
Candace: You two are the best brothers a great actress could ever have! I love you both!
(Cut to a movie theater)
Producer: We've packed the theater with teenagers. They're our target audience. If they like it, we're in business. If they don't... (Hisses)
(Lyrical music plays as The Princess Sensibilities come on, then dramatic music plays as the words switch)
Eerie Sinister Voice: The Curse of the Princess Monster.
(Audience cheering)
Producer: Looks like we got a hit movie!
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: Now, Perry the Platypus, watch carefully as I demonstrate the Age Accelerator-Inator. (Laser zaps a baby on a playground, turning it into a large hairy adult) Hooray, it worked! And now to make some perfectly aged cheese! (Laser zaps) Ah, perfect! You can actually see the pungent aroma. Here you go, Perry the Platypus. But I'm warning you. Once you start, you won't be able to stop. I'll go get some crackers. We're in luck! I still have some left over Melba Toa-- (gasps in horror) Oh no! The cheese! What happened to the stinky cheese?!
(Camera pans to Perry, who managed to swallow the entire cheese wheel)</br>
Doofenshmitz: Perry the Platypus, you ate all the cheese?! Noooooo! I created this for peaceful, cheese loving purposes, but now you forced me to wield it in anger! (Laser zaps) Perry the- Perry the Platypus, hold still! Hold still so I can blast you!
(Cut to the movie theater)
Producer: Wow! Those kids love it!
Candace: Yay! Super stardom, here I come!
(Laser hits theater, old people booing)
Phineas: Huh? What's going on in there?
Old people: It's too loud with all the rock 'n roll!/Where are my teeth?/What a waste of my time!
Producer: Sorry, kids. They hated it. The movie's dead.
Phineas: Well, at least we had fun.
Candace: Fun? What about me? I was gonna be a star.
Phineas: Don't worry, Candace. We saved a copy of your best scenes. We're gonna put it on our website right away.
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: (Laughing) I have you cornered! This time, I will hit you with everything I've got! (sets the machine to MAX Power) Say goodbye, Perry the Platypus!
(Lasers zapping, Explosion)
Wait, wait, wait, that's not right. (Thud; Doofenshmirtz chuckles) Perry the Platypus, just- just look at yourself. You really let yourself go.
♪ Perry! ♪
(Gasps) Oh, so you had an Age Accelerator-Inator proof suit! (Laughs) Well, I have a little surprise of my own. (Fabric tearing) Heh. Well, It's already 4:30. I think I'm going to bed. Curse you, Perry the Platypus.
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb's room)
Phineas: Oh boy, this is gonna be great!
(Candace crushes monster set)
Candace: (Speaking in a deep voice and in slow motion) You guys ruin everything!
(BOOM! We see a model of the Earth exploding!)
Phineas: Whoa, check it out! 5,000,000 hits already?! I bet everyone we know saw it! Enjoy it while it lasts, Candace. Fame is fleeting.
Ferb: But the Internet is forever.
(Candace faints)
Phineas: Good night, Candace.

End Credits
Boy #1: Hey, nice monster you got on the Internet!
Boy #2: "You guys ruin everything!" (Laughing)
Girl: Hey, Mom, that's the monster on my computer!
Boy #3: I've got it! The Swamp Monster of Danville!
YOU ROCK!
Boy #4: She rocks.
Boy #3: Yeah.






 This article is in need of improvement in the following area(s):





 Clean-up  "...Because the worst part of the party is the cleanup, am I right?"


 Transcript is missing some scene transitions.





Once these items have been improved, this template may be removed. Added by ~KinHikari "It's not enough to just have a positive outlook and high aspirations." 15:47, March 3, 2016 (UTC).



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
♪ Na, na, na ♪
Candace: Jeremy is so cute, especially when he's in his Mr. Slushy Dog Uniform.
Linda: Candace, My jazz trio has a gig at the Squat 'n Stitch today. Why don't you, Phineas and Ferb hang out at the mall together?
Candace: The mall? (Ding) I can visit Jeremy at Mr. Slushy Dog!
Linda: Testing. Welcome everyone, uh, we'll be playing some free formed jazz today. It might get a little crazy, so, hold on to those knitting needles. (Plays triangle) Hit it, girls!
Candace: Alright, squirts. Here's your cut. I'll see you back here in 2 hours. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to Mr. Slushy Dog.
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?

(Slide squeaking)
Major Monogram: Sorry about that, Agent P. Our slide waxing guy has Jury duty this weekend. Anyhow, Doofenshmirtz has purchased some suspicious items: 4 helicopter blades, 2 dozen party balloons, and Light bulbs. 6000 of them. He's hiding out at the old abandoned cake factory on the edge of T-- Carl, the light bulb and the "6000". Still on the screen. Ah, thanks, Carl. Locate Doofenshmirtz and figure out what he's up to. Don't fail us, Agent P.

Jeremy: Oh, hey Candace.
Candace: Heh. My cell phone appears to be ringing. (Snapshot) Whoops! My camera went off! (Giggling)
(Stopwatch ticking)
Phineas: Well, that was an interesting experiment.
Baljeet: Excuse me, but why are you not studying?
Phineas: It's summer vacation. You know, no school, and teachers aren't around, and all you have to worry about are bullies? (Electric Guitar playing) Eh, Buford? That seat's kinda taken.
Buford: This table's taken. Sit somewhere else.
Phineas: What about Baljeet?
Baljeet: (Muffled) Please go. You will just make him angry.
(Ice cream falls on Buford)
Buford: Aiee! (Crowd laughing) This is gonna hurt.
Isabella: Hey! Put him down!
Baljeet: Do as she says! Violence can only lead to more violence.
Buford: Sounds good to me.
Man: Hold it!
Isabella: World heavyweight boxing champion Evander Holyfield?
Phineas: Aren't you a little old to be a professional boxer?
Evander: Yes. Yes I am.
Phineas: Cool.
Evander: If you have to fight, do it time-honored way, out behind the mall at 3:00.
Phineas: Uh, Ferb. How's our 3:00?
Ferb: (Ding)
Phineas: We'll be there.
Buford: (Drops Phineas) Don't be late. My mom's pickin' me up at 4:00.
Phineas: It looks like we found something to do today.
Baljeet: What you have found is a One-way magic carpet ride to your own destruction.
Isabella: He's right. Remember what happened to the last kid Buford fought?
Boy: (Muffled) You win this round, Buford.
Isabella: I don't want that to happen to you.
Evander: It won't, 'cause I'm gonna train him.
(Song: "He's a Bully")
♪ Your opponent is as big as an ape ♪
♪ So if you wanna avoid being mangled ♪
♪ Just like him, you've got to get into shape ♪
♪ And by shape I don't mean a triangle ♪
♪ He's big, he's dumb, he's got the I.Q. of gum ♪
♪ He's got the brain about the size of a sourdough crumb ♪
♪ But he'll beat on your head like a big bass drum, ♪
♪ His behavior is truly unruly, ♪
♪ He's a bully! (He's a bully!) ♪
♪ Yeah, He's a bully! (He's a bully!) ♪
♪ Yeah, yeah! ♪
♪ Yeah, yeah-yeah...! ♪
Milly: Here you go, Brawl at the mall. 3:00, Brawl at the mall.
Candace: "The Brawl at the mall"? (Ferb using drill) What do you two think you're doing? You can't just go building a boxing ring out here in the parking lot! I'm telling Mom right now!
(Snapshot; Playing Jazz)
Mom, Phineas and Ferb are at it again!
Linda: Not now, Candace. Oh, My solo! (Plays triangle)
Candace: Oh, I need proof. The flyer!

Doofenshmirtz: (Laughs) Perry the Platypus! I trapped you in a giant bowl filled to the brim with Doonkelberry cake mix. You see, Today is my birthday! Struggle all you want, Perry the Platypus. But in 30 to 40 minutes, the yeast will rise, and you'll be buried alive! Here, have some. Unfortunately, my birthday has always been the lousiest day of the year. It all began on the day of my actual birth...
(Flashback of baby Doofenshmirtz being born in a hospital)
Both of my parents failed to show up.
(Cut to 5 year old Doofenshmirtz who uncovers his eyes)
By the age of 5, I was forced to throw my own surprise party. At Gunther Goat Cheese's. The goat-cheesiest place in all of Druselstein. Many of my closest friends were there: Count Wolfgang, Betty the She-Boar, Raputin, and the licekins, Olga and Chicago Joe.
Employee: Hello, Boys and—Oh. Hmm... Awkward. Uh, Hey kid, lock up when you're done, okay? (Slams door)
Doofenshmirtz: But one should never walk the paths of Druselstein. With uncovered Doonkelberry cake, lest the Doonkelberry bats swarm.
Young Doofenshmirtz: (Screams)
(Flashback ends)
Doofenshmirtz: But this year, I won't be celebrating my birthday alone. Behold, The Slave-inator! You see, the crowd will do whatever the Slave-inator tells them to do! (Laughs)
(Air horn)
I even have a Cleanup party button, Because the worst part of a party is the cleanup, am I right?
(helicopter blades lift the Slave-inator)
Doofenshmirtz:Farewell, Perry the Platypus, and Happy Birthday to me!</span>
(Perry blows the whale whistle and a whale crashes through wall. He then blows the bat whistle and some Doonkleberry bats come and eat the cake mix.)
(In the ring...)
Announcer: Llllllllladies and gentlemen, boys and girls! He's from a bad home, he's missing a chromosome, Buford the Bullyyyyyyy! Aaaaaaand in this corner, he's got moves, he's got grace, his nose takes up his entire face, Fabulous Phineaaaaaaas Flynn! Okay, boys. Let's have a fair and square fight, and in no way should this ensuing fight contain the image of a potentially harmful, hurtful, or psychologically disturbing act, that could be found imitable by an impressionable child viewer.
Buford: Aw!
Announcer: Boys and Girls, llllllet's get rrrready to Thumb Wrestlllllllle!
(They stick their thumbs in a pretend boxing ring.)
(In the storage closet, Candace is talking with Holly and Ginger.)
Holly: Sorry, we're out of flyers.
Candace: Poster?
Holly: Nope.
Candace: Action figures?
Holly: Sold out.
Candace: Commemorative coin?
Holly: All gone.
Candace: 8 x 10 glossy photo?!?
Holly: Those sold like hot cakes.
Candace: (Gasps) Photo! Yes! Photographic evidence! (Circus music playing)

Doofenshmirtz: (Air horn, bats squeaking) Perry the Platypus! Well, if you're gonna crash my party, you're gonna need a party hat. A party hat of doom!
Perry: (Party blowers tooting)
(Doofenshmirtz and Perry commence in a battle of party favors)
(Cut to the fighting ring. A bell rings, Phineas and Buford's thumbs perform their starting dance)
Crowd: 1, 2, 3, 4, I declare a thumb war!
(The thumbs finish their dances and fight)
Announcer: The fighters spring to life, they're squaring up to each other, YOW! Flynn hits the mat! Buford gots him where he wants him, and look, and Oh! Into the turnbuckle! Clothesline! That can't feel good! Hold onto your seats folks, this one's gonna be brutal!

Doofenshmirtz: Still hanging around, Perry the Platypus? (Slams keyboard on Perry's fingers; Air horn)

Crowd: Ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooh...

Doofenshmirtz: Why don't you let go? Doesn't it hurt your fingers?

Phineas: I don't think this is going so well.
Evander: Nonsense, kid. Go for the gold! Fight fire with fire! Aw, shoot. Shoot him the stink-eye! Uh, Grease the pig! Ah, I got nothing.
Announcer: (Bell rings) A right hook! A darting left jab! (Slow motion) No!
Candace: Photo, photo, photo, photo.
(Song: "It's Going So Badly")
♪ (Man singing opera) ♪
Announcer: Buford is climbing the turnbuckles! He's on the top rope! (Candace takes picture)
Announcer: Oh! The dreaded Boston belt sander! (Buford laughing)
(Inside...)
Candace: Mom!!! (runs up to her and shows the picture on her phone) Finally, indisputable photographic evidence of dangerous and irresponsible behavior!
Linda: Candace, this is your thumb in front of the lens.
(Candace looks at her phone, it shows a photo of Phineas with her thumb covering most of his face.)
Candace: AAAAAH! Oh...you are coming with me! (drags her out)

Doofenshmirtz: And now, Perry the Platypus, I will smudge your face with ice cream! (Laughing maniacally, Perry blows whale whistle) Wait, W-what are you doing? What is that?
(Whale jumps over Slave-inator, knocking the ice cream out of the cone)
(Splat)
Doofenshmirtz:No! Wait!

(Song: "It's Going So Badly")
♪ (Man singing opera) ♪
Announcer: No! Oh, the humanity! Flynn falls hard! The crowd's on its feet!
♪ It's going so badly! ♪
It's over! It's all over!
♪ Our hero's on the rope and now it's looking like the end ♪
(Evander and Announcer sobbing, Ice cream drops on Phineas)
Buford: (Laughs) Ice cream fell on you! (Laughs) Whaddya say? Even Steven?
Phineas: Sure Buford. Even Steven.

Doofenshmirtz: Wait! How did you do th-- (Clang) Hey, where did that whale come from? Oh, this is the worst party ever! (Screams) My birthday cake! Goodbye, Perry the Platypus! At least I still have my birthday cake! (Cake splats, Bats squeaking) Curse you, Perry the (Indistinct)—pus! (All that can be heard from him were shouts of pain)

(Slave-inator falls, Air horn)
Man: Hey, I have a strange urge to clean up this mess...
Woman: Me too...
Man #2: Let's do it...
Woman: I'll take care of the whale...
(Later, the ring is removed)
Buford: Thank you, Mr. Holyfield.
Phineas: Yeah. Wouldn't have been real without you.
Evander: Happy to help you boys find a slightly less valid way to settle your differences.
(Perry walks up and chatters)
Phineas: There you are, Perry.
(The mall door slams open, Candace drags Linda out)
Candace: See?!!
Phineas: Hi, Mom!
Linda: Hi, boys! (at Candace, sternly) If you'll excuse me, Candace, I'm gonna get back for the second set. (leaves)
Candace: (Squeaks, faints)
Buford: Hey, Dinnerbell, that was the best battle ever. Same thing tomorrow?
Phineas: Nah. I like to keep moving forward.
Ferb: Sharks have to continue to move forward, or they'll drown.
Buford: (angry again) You calling me a shark?!
(Horror sting, Ferb does a Vulcan-style nerve pinch)
Buford: Blagh! (Faints)
Phineas: Fer-rb?!
Ferb: Well, he was all up on my face.
Buford: (Groans) What happened?

End Credits
(Song:" He's a Bully")
♪ He's big, he's dumb, he's got the I.Q. of gum ♪
♪ He's got the brain about the size of a sourdough crumb ♪
♪ But he'll beat on your head like a big bass drum ♪
♪ His behavior is truly unruly ♪
♪ He's a bully! (He's a bully!) ♪
♪ Yeah, He's a bully! (He's a bully!) ♪
♪ Yeah, yeah! ♪
♪ Yeah, yeah-yeah! ♪



(Scene opens up showing Phineas sleeping.)
♪ Na, na na ♪
Phineas: Yes! Hey, Ferb! (Throws pillow at Ferb) It's Candace's birthday! We gotta do better than last year.
(Flashback)
Gorilla: (Comes out cake; Roars)
Candace: AAH! (Slams door)
(Flashback ends)
Phineas: Not our best work. This time it's gotta be something huge!
(Song: "She's Candace")
♪ She's Candace.♪
♪ Like the Venus De Milo, except she's not armless and handless. ♪
♪ She's got a big, honking truckload of ship-launching qualities. ♪
♪ And this is the reason she bears no resemblance to a praying mantis! ♪
♪ (Candace) A name with 7 letters! ♪
♪ (Candace) Only wears designer sweaters! ♪
♪ (Candace) She's got an allergy to dairy! ♪
♪ (Candace) And she's anything but ordinary! ♪
(Perry chatters, Candace wakes up)
Candace: Perry?
(Perry is on Candace's bed)
(Cut to the kitchen where Candace gives Perry to Ferb)
This is yours, I believe.
Linda: Happy birthday, Candace! I made you a special breakfast! (Shows a pile of pancakes with a birthday candle on top)
Lawrence: And after that, we have a surprise!
Candace: What is it?! Where is it?!
Lawrence: We have to drive to it.
Candace: (gasps) Ooooooooooh!!!
(Cut to the family car)
(offscreen) Is it the mall?
(Cut to in the car)
Linda: (offscreen) No.
Candace: Okay... (looks around) but is it the mall, right?
(The car is entering Mount Rushmore)
Lawrence: (offscreen) No, it's not the mall!
(Cut back to Candace)
Candace: Wait. Please don't tell me we're going to Mt. Rushmore...
Linda: Isn't it great? (Looks at a pamphlet) Four American presidents carved into a side of a mountain.
Lawrence: It was Phineas and Ferb's idea!
(Candace gives Phineas an angry glare)
Phineas: You're welcome.
(In the parking lot...)
Lawrence: Okay. You lot go on ahead. I'll find a parking spot and meet you there! (drives off)
Phineas: We're going up to the monument. Come on, Perry.
Linda: Okay, we'll join you in a minute!
(Cut to the gift shop)
Okay, Candace. It's your birthday, you can pick out anything you want. Ooh, what about the Mt. Rushmore bobble head?
Candace: Mom, that's lame.
Linda: Okay. How about this cute, cuddly Lincoln?
Candace: Jeremy? (Runs to counter) Hi, Jeremy.
Jeremy: Hey, Candace.
Candace: What are you doing here?
Jeremy: Ah, I'm just here on the Mr. Slushy Burger worker exchange program.
Candace: Um... (Clattering) Uh, oh, well, it's my birthday today, and...I...uh... (Clattering) I gotta check something. Back in a flash, 'kay? (Zips off)
(Outside)
(Deeply) Where'd they go?
(Back inside)
Isabella: Hi, Mrs. Fletcher.
Linda: Oh, hi, Isabella. What brings you girls here?
Isabella: Fireside Girls field trip. Um, is Phineas here?
Linda: Mmm hmm. He and Ferb are up on the monument.
Phineas: Possibilities.
Ferb: (Ding)
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba, ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba, ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba, ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba, ♪
♪ Doo be- ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba, Doo be doo be doo ba ♪
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. Dr. Doofenshmirtz is up to no good again. We just discovered his new hideout is located inside Lincoln's head at Mt. Rushmore. (Perry scowls) I-I know. You were just there. Poor planning on our part, actually. Sorry.
Candace: (growling voice) Phineas?! Ferrrrb?! Ohh.
Man: Hey, honey. What are them kids doing up on the monument?
Candace: Let me see that. (Looks through the binoculars, sees Phineas and Ferb on the monument and gasps) Mom! Mom, you've got to see this now. Here, look!
Linda: Oop. Ran out of time.
Candace: Oh, (Rummaging) here, look now!
(Linda looks through the telescope, but the water from a geyser blocks the action)
Linda: Oh, Old Reliable Geyser. How exciting! (at Candace) I'm just gonna go back to the gift shop.
(Candace looks through the telescope, the water has stopped gushing. Candace cringes and stomps off, causing the telescope to bounce up to Perry, who enters Lincoln's head to Doofenshmirtz's lair)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus! Your timing﻿ is impeccable. And by impeccable I mean: COMPLETELY PECCABLE! (Laughs) You're just in time to witness my latest scheme. Behold, my Drill-Inator! I will bore a tunnel to China, build a toll highway, and make millions!
So, as they say in China: Arrivederci!
(Punches landing)
Phineas: Now, where should we start?
Isabella: (dreamy voice) Hi, Phineas. What'cha doin'?
Phineas: It's a surprise.
Isabella: Can I help?
Phineas: We could use a lookout!
Isabella: You got it!
(Rushes to trees, birds squawking)
Cashier: Uh, ma'am, if you handle the big stick, you gotta buy it.
Candace: Mom! You gotta see what Phineas and Ferb are doing!
Ranger: (On megaphone) Uh, excuse me. Aren't you a little young to be restoring a national monument?
Ferb: (Holds megaphone)
Phineas: (On megaphone) Yes. Yes we are.
Ranger: Well, it's good to see young people taking an interest in our national heritage.
Doofenshmirtz: (Grunting and screaming)
Computer Voice: Hull overheating. Hull overheating.
Doofenshmirtz: The molten lava of the earth's core completely slipped my mind.
Oh no! THE LAVA IS FOLLOWING US!!!
The lava is being diverted. You did it, Perry the Platypus! You saved us!
I hate to be a stickler, but the lava is coming AGAIN!!! FASTER!
Candace: Wait 'till you see what those two are up to!
Isabella: (singsong) She's coming!
♪ Phineas and Ferb Theme Song instrumental ♪
(Candace and Linda are coming up the stairs)
They're getting closer!!
Phineas: We're running a little behind on schedule. Go to Plan B.
Isabella: (on bullhorn) Plan B, girls!
(The Fireside Girls haul something over to the viewing area)
Candace: You are gonna be shocked by what I'm about to show you, Mom.
(They arrive at the viewing area, but Candace is the one who's shocked, not Linda. What they see is a cardboard Mount Rushmore)
Linda: Hmm. I guess things look better in photos. (Phone rings) Oh, it's Dad. (walks away)
(Cut to Lawrence)
Lawrence: Hi, honey! I found an absolutely brilliant parking space!
(widen to reveal a huge parking lot, an arrow shows where the car is, cut back to Linda)
Linda: (Going down the stairs) Great! I'll meet you at the gift shop, Dear. I still have to buy that big stick.
(Candace still stares shocked at what she saw. A bird knocks the cardboard down revealing the real Mount Rushmore)
Candace: Huh?
Phineas: Now!
(Phineas and Ferb swing on ropes, revealing a hideous looking Candace statue. Candace is still shocked)
Phineas: (long pause) Oops.
(Ferb hammers a rock, the hideous statue crumbles, revealing a proper Candace statue. Briefly Candace is still shocked, but it turns into happiness)
Candace: Huh? (tears up, sobs) Why it's... (sobs) i-it's...IIIIIT'S BEAUUUUTIFULLLL...! (sobs) MOOOOOM!!! (runs off)
(Candace runs down the stairs)
Candace: Mom! (trips) I've gotta show you something right now! (drags her) Come on! Follow me!
Linda: Candace, are you still trying to get the boys in trouble?
Candace: No! No, no, this is a great thing! Oh, it's the nicest thing anyone has ever done for me!
Linda: (tries to climb the stairs) You know, Candace, this is the second time I've climbed up there! I'm already down half a dress size!
Candace: Come on! Hurry!
(Cut to the Drill-inator, it bursts out of the "nose" on the Candace statue)
Doofenshmirtz: AAH! 
(Perry locks the Drill-inator's target onto the Old Reliable Geyser and jumps off)
Wait, where are you going? AAH! (The Drill-inator lands on the geyser) I'm okay, I -- (spins around and gets flung away) AAH! Fie upon you, Perry the Platypuuuuus!
(Perry parachutes down to safty)
(Cut back to Candace)
Candace: Hurry, Mom! You won't believe it!
(Spots of lava form on the statue)
...Huh?
(Lava bursts out of the spots on the statue)
(Gasps) Ewwwww!
(More lava bursts out, Candace gets shocked. The statue explodes as an orchestra plays music to match the feeling and Phineas and Ferb roast hot dogs on the lava. Water from the geyser spurts out from under the Drill-inator at the lava, cooling it)
(Candace's expression changes to depression, Linda makes her perfectly timed entrance)
Linda: Whew! Finally made it, honey! Now, what is it you wanted me to see?
Candace: Bu...bu...!
(Camera shows the lava smoke vanishing, revealing the normal monument, no Candace statue and all)
Linda: You're right! It's beautiful! (hugs her) Happy birthday, honey. (Kisses Candace's cheek) Now let's go find your father. 
(Linda walks away, camera zooms in on a saddened Candace)
Candace: Ugh! (bangs her head on the iron rod)
(Phineas and Ferb come over)
Phineas: Did ya like your birthday present?
Candace: Uh-huh, uh... (walks away)
Ferb: Well, it was definitely better than the gorilla in the cake.

End Credits
(Candace is sadly descending the stairs)
Jeremy: (comes over with a gift box) Hey, Candace! I had a break, and I, uh, I thought I'd give you this for you birthday. (Gives her the box, she opens it) I saw you looking at it in the gift shop.
(Candace takes out her present:)
Candace: A Mt. Rushmore bobble head.
Jeremy: Eh -- You like it?
(Pause)
Candace: (Dreamly) Oh! I absolutely love it...
Jeremy: Great. I gotta get back. Happy birthday! (walks away waving)
(Pause, Candace boxes up her present)
Candace: This was the best birthday ever! (walks away)
(Suspense music plays as Perry parachutes in the background)






 ...Because the worst part of the party is the cleanup, am I right?
This article may require clean-up to meet Phineas and Ferb Wiki's standards.
Please improve the article if you can.
(August 3, 2015) 



 This article is in need of improvement in the following area(s):





 Clean-up  "...Because the worst part of the party is the cleanup, am I right?"


 Transcript's still missing scene transitions





Once these items have been improved, this template may be removed. Added by ~KinHikari "But you can call her Agent K." 00:05, October 23, 2012 (UTC).



Scene opens up showing runway models going down a runway.
(Snapshots)
Gaston Le Mode (on TV): Behold! Feast your eyes upon the fashion of the future!
(In the living room, Candace is watching TV; Phineas walks by.)
Phineas: Hey, Candace. (said in the same manner as Isabella) What'cha waaaatchin'?
Candace: Only the latest looks from the world's greatest fashion designer, Gaston Le Mode.
Phineas: I don't get it. Why would anyone want to wear goofy looking clothes?
Candace: It's not goofy! Fashion designers create art. That people live in.
Phineas: Hmm. I never thought of it that way. (At Ferb) Ferb, put the Cold Fusion Reactor on hold!
Ferb: (Pulls lever)
Phineas: I know what we're gonna do today!
Gaston Le Mode (on TV): As now, to my world tour, I, Gaston Le Mode, will be at the...
Voice-Over: (dubbing over Le Mode) Googolplex Mall!
Gaston Le Mode (on TV): ...today!
Candace: Stacy, I know what we're gonna do today!

(Perry looks around after Candace leaves, then jumps into the fireplace entrance and lands in his chair. Screen button beeps)
Major Monogram: 1, 2, 3, testing, testing, 1, 2, 3-- (Camera shows that he is not wearing pants) Agent P, you're early! Carl, cut to close up! (Camera zooms in) (To Perry) Oh. (Clears throat) Basically, Doofenshmirtz has been acting up again. He's stockpiling the usual strange and unrelated things. This time, it's copy machines and ink cartridges by the thousands. We need you to find out what's going on right away.
(In the backyard)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb. If we're gonna tackle this fashion design thing, we've gotta do something really special. It has to be cool. Comfortable. And undetectable by radar. Something that absolutely screams summer! Ah, I think you're on to something, Ferb!
Isabella: (enters) Hey, Phineas. What'cha dooooin'?
Phineas: Ferb and I are working on designs for our new clothing line. Take a look at what we've got so far.
Isabella: Very impressive! Need any help? (Shows the Fireside Girls holding dressmaking equipment) The Fireside Girls and I are trying to get our sewing badges.
Phineas: Excellent. Let's go!
(Song: "Forever Summer")
♪ Forever summer (X2) ♪
♪ (Summer, all the time) (X2) ♪
(Isabella giggling)
♪ Summer ♪
♪ Never fall ♪
♪ Sometimes spring, forever summer ♪
Phineas: Woo hoo!
♪ Forever summer ♪

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Dirigible! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus! Let me show you something, "Mr. I Break Through Walls Whenever I Want"! (Button beeps and a robot arm holding a roll of duct tape pops out of the floor and tapes up the crack) There you go. Oh, one more thing! (Button beeps and the arm ties up Perry with the tape) Oh, look! I have captured the rare "DUCK-Taped Platypus"! (Laughs maniacally) You know, like duck-billed... Never mind. Anyway, let me show you my evil scheme. I call it the Copy and Paste-Inator! Now, there's nothing I hate than waiting in line. All the time wasted in stores, and amusement parks, where I could be spreading more evil in the Tri-State Area! I will make copies of myself, and they will do the waiting for me. I know, it sounds a little crazy but, look. You're all tied up. And (sits down in the Inator seat) I am stepping into a giant copy machine of my self. (has crazy eyes as he say the next words) Who's crazy now? (Electricity zapping as the Inator closes)
(At Googolplex Mall)
Candace: There it is; The world's most famous runway of Gaston Le Mode. Oh, Stacy, can you imagine the glamorous life of a supermodel?
(She begins to daydream. Snapshots; Crowd cheering)
Supermodel Candace: Hi, I'm Candace. I'm sure you recognize me from my countless magazine covers. You know, being a supermodel is hard work; The bright lights, the deafening applause, and all those paper cuts from counting my huge stacks of money. That's why I start every morning with Candace Os.
Man: Candace Os. Part of a nutritious breakfast.
(Back to reality)
Stacy: Candace?
Candace: What?
Stacy: Candace Os?
Candace: (Sighs) I really shouldn't fantasize on an empty stomach.
Man #2: (Gasps)
Gaston Le Mode: Finally! After years of bitter struggle, I, Gaston Le Mode, have created the ultimate design; The ne plus ultra in haute couture. But alas, I cannot find a single model with a neck long enough to complement my design.
Woman: Sorry, Gaston, but only someone with a freakishly long neck could fit into--
Gaston Le Mode: Yes. Everyone is sorry. Where will I find that swan-like neck?
Man #2: Pardon, Monsieur, I have great news!
Gaston Le Mode: (excitedly) A Jerry Lewis marathon on TV tonight?
Man #2: I wish! But no. Better yet, I have found her!
(French music)
Candace: Hi.
Man #2: Look at this! Mon Dieu! It is perfection!
Gaston Le Mode: You are my Cou De Crayon.
Candace: Your Cou De Crayon? Cool!
Gaston Le Mode: Allez! Allez! Let's get you to makeup.

Doofenshmirtz: (Screams) I-- I think I just tanned my eyeballs. Ugh. Now, with a push of a button, I will make history! (Laughs maniacally) By the way, do you like my mural? It's a silhouette of me going... (Laughs maniacally; Pushes button) All right, let's see, now. (Ding) Oh, needs a little more toner. Oh, copy jam.
Doofenshmirtz #2: Uh...
Doofenshmirtz: Why is it when people copy their butts, it comes out perfect?
(Cut back to Gaston with Candace, now wearing one of the dresses)
Gaston Le Mode: We're almost ready. now, let me see. (Candace turns around) Oh! Absolutely beautiful!
Candace: (blushes) Oh, why, thank you!
Gaston Le Mode: Now, wait right here while I introduce you to the crowd.
Delivery Guy: Package for Gaston Le Mode.
Gaston Le Mode: (excitedly) Is it a poster of Jerry Lewis?
Delivery Guy: I wish!
Gaston Le Mode: All right, all right. But this better be important. (unrolls the paper) Ooh! Gasp! This design! It's comfortable. Cool. And undetectable by radar. It absolutely screams summer!
Candace: This isn't new! I've seen this before!
Gaston Le Mode: Do you know who designed it?
Phineas: We did, sir. It's part of the Summer All The Time collection.
Gaston Le Mode: C'est magnifique!
Candace: What are you guys doing here?
Phineas: It's all thanks to you, Candace. We thought fashion design was lame, but you convinced us to give the glamor world a chance.
Candace: But-but-but-but--
Gaston Le Mode: Mademoiselle, Candace, there has been a change in plans. You will wear this on, s'il vous plait.
Candace: I-I-I--
Gaston Le Mode: Or you could wear this.
Candace: Not in this life! Sayonara, amigo! (stomps across the runway in anger) I am so telling Mom, and you guys are so busted! (falls into the crowd) I'm okay!
(Cut back to Gaston)
Gaston Le Mode: But mademoiselle! Sigh. Okay, ladies, time to get changed and strut your stuff.
Women: Thank you, Gaston.
(Song: "Forever Summer")
Gaston Le Mode: Ladies and Gentlemen, I, Gaston Le Mode, am proud to present this stunning new collection: Summer All The Time.
♪ Summer ♪
♪ (Summer, all the time) ♪
And to give a big hand to the designers, my latest discovery, (Snapshot) Phineas and Ferb!
♪ ...Sometimes spring ♪
♪ Forever summer ♪
Phineas: Wow, Ferb. Our designs have really caught on.
Gaston Le Mode: Everyone who is anyone is wearing Summer All The Time.
Phineas: Not a bad morning's work.
Woman #2: Nice outfit, handsome.
Gaston Le Mode: You are on fire.
(Cut to a store, Candace comes out)
Candace: When Mom hears about this-- (Sees two people) Hey, wait a minute. Where did you get those outfits?
Woman #3: These? Why, these are the only latest hit designs from the Summer All The Time collection. Everybody's wearing them. I mean, jeez, where you been?
Candace: "Phineas and Ferb, The Kings of Couture!"? That was fast.
Stacy: Candace? There you are!
Candace: Stacy?
Stacy: You left your cell phone and your clothes in there.
Candace: (Gasps) Stacy? You too?! You look just like Ferb!
Stacy: Wow, thanks, Candace! Most of this is a genuine label, but the shoes are a total knockoffs. I heard there's a riot Uptown at this one store that got a fresh shipment. I gotta run before they sell out. Bye! Oh, and Candace? Friendly tip; That Gaston stuff is so 42 seconds ago.
Candace: (Growls)
(On the DEI Blimp, Doofenshmirtz is showing a myriad of Doofenshmirtz clones)
Doofenshmirtz: You see, Perry the Platypus, a whole army of Doofenshmirtzs! Perfect copies of me!
(Cut to two of the clones)
Doofenshmirtz #3: Hiya, handsome.
Doofenshmirtz #4: Right back at ya, fella.
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz as the clones march by)
Doofenshmirtz: You, here! Grab me some corn dogs!
Doofenshmirtz #5: Sure thing!
Doofenshmirtz: You, go fetch me some movie tickets!
Doofenshmirtz #6: You bet your britches!
Doofenshmirtz: And you, go ride that new rollercoaster a couple of times, okay?
Doofenshmirtz #7: Okey-Dokey!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, me too! Go, go, my facsimiles! Go wait in line so I never have to!
(The clones jump out of the blimp and arrive at the mall)
Doofenshmirtzs: (Cheering)/Geronimo!/Whoopee!/Santa Claus!/Native American icon!/Hey, there's the mall!/Well, that was fun!/Ooh, what fun!/Oh, I landed in a puddle.
(Cut to inside the mall)
Doofenshmirtzs: Look at the puppies! (All talking at once)
Man: Hey, you see what these people are wearing?
Woman #3: Some kind of retro pharmacist outfit.
Man: I feel so 2 minutes and 5 seconds ago.
Woman #3: Hey, let's get back in style!
(Everyone shouting; Crashing)
Doofenshmirtz #8: Now I have two!

Doofenshmirtz: Aren't they adorable? How about you jump, and fetch me something too, huh? Something like, um, your doom?
Doofenshmirtz #2: Hey, don't hurt the little bunny rabbit.
Doofenshmirtz: How did you get out of the trash, you drop-out bohemian? (To Perry) I'll be right back. I've got some deleting to do. That's right, tremble, my rejected friend. (Button beeps) Oh no! I pushed the "Delete All" button by mistake!

Doofenshmirtzs: (Disappears)

Doofenshmirtz: Look what you made me do! Oh, guess who's paying for this! What is this? Hey, why did you jump out that-- (Gasps) Oh, you clever, little plat-- (Screams) Well, that wasn't very bright! Now we're both going-- (Screams) CURSE YOU, PERRY THE PLATYPUS!
♪ Agent P! ♪
(Back in the mall...)
Candace: Come on, Mom, you want to see something crazy?!!
Linda: (flatly) Oh, I think I'm looking at it...
Candace: Look, Mom! You see?!! (Points, then, after a moment, looks downward, deadpanned)
(Horror music plays)
Linda: So you dragged me all the way down here for a...pharmacist convention?
(Horror music stops. Candace looks at the people in lab coats, then puts on a cheesy smile at Linda)
Gaston Le Mode: Face it, mon ami, your designs are 3 minutes and 37 seconds ago.
Phineas: Oh, well. We had a great time. Hey, Gaston? What's with the new outfit?
Gaston Le Mode: Are you kidding? No one's claiming this look yet! I have to get out in front of this thing and take credit for it all. That's how you stay in business, kid. Au revoir!
Isabella: Well, Phineas, I still like your style.
Phineas: Thanks. (To Linda) Hi, Mom!
Linda: Oh, look. We're all here. Why don't we get some lunch? (leaving) I think there's a pizza place right over there.
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
Candace: Yeah, go ahead. Eat all you want. My dreams are smashed to pieces, and all you can think of is food! Well, just remember, Gaston said I'll always be his Cou de Crayon.
Ferb: You do realize that that's French for "Pencil Neck"?
8-Bit Voice: ♪ Phineas and Ferb ♪

End Credits
(Song: "Forever Summer")
♪ Forever summer (X2) ♪
♪ (Summer, all the time) ♪
(Isabella giggling)
♪ (Summer, all the time) ♪
♪ Summer ♪
♪ Never fall ♪
♪ Sometimes spring, forever summer ♪



(Scene opens up showing cows walking by in the background.)
(Song: On the Trail)
Cowboy: ♪ On the trail ♪
♪ Always riding and a-roping on the trail ♪
♪ Where them doggies are a-loping on the trail ♪
Cows: ♪ On the trail ♪
Cowboy: ♪ Nothing worse than bees a-stinging ♪
♪ 'Cept this cowboy song we're singing on the trail ♪
♪ (On the trail) ♪
♪ Sunset's looking awful groovy on the trail ♪
♪ (On the trail) ♪
♪ 'Cause they colorized this movie on the trail ♪
♪ (On the trail) ♪
♪ On the trail (On the trail) (X2) ♪
♪ Yah! ♪
Linda: Smile, Boys! (takes a picture) Aw, you two look so cute!
Phineas: (at the camera) She means well.
Linda: I'll be back in a few hours. Have fun!
Candace: Yeah, right. You better not pull any of your weird stunts, got it?
Phineas: (Western drawl) Don't fret none, school marm.
Candace: So, he was like totally checking me out when little Miss Pants walks in front of me. Yeah, yeah! So I was like "Uh, hello?" and so she was like "Oh no, you di-in't!" and I was like "Oh yes, I di-id!"
Man: Mighty sorry, Buckaroos. Time to rein in those ponies.
Phineas: Hey, Isabella. What are you doing here?
Isabella: I just earned my milking badge, and it was so easy. All you do is squeeze and pull and squeeze and pull and squeeze and pull and squeeze and pull, and- so, whatcha doin'?
Phineas: We're riding ponies, (Western drawl) but it makes a feller hanker for the real thing. You know, livin' out on the open range. Ridin', ropin', brandin'. Bustin' broncos and breakin' wind with your amigos under the western skies. (Normal voice) Heck, we could even ford a stream! I don't even know what that means, but it sounds fun! (Spits) Oh, and spitting. Hey, where's Perry?

(Suspense music, Lasers firing)
Major Monogram: ...Yeah. And she was like "Oh no, you di-in't!" and-- Oh, there you are, Agent P. Oops. I forgot to turn off the laser sharks again, didn't I? My bad. Anyway, the evil Dr. Doofenshmirtz is at it again. Not only does he have 3 books about insects overdue at the library, but he's cornered the market on aluminum siding. He's hold up on his water fortress on Lake Winimahatikihaha. Ha-ha. I love saying that. You must find out what he's up to and put a stop to it. That is all.
(Tracking device beeping)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
(Motor revving)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus! As usual, your timing is uncanny! And by uncanny, of course I mean: COMPLETELY CANNY!
(Button beeps)
So, Perry the Platypus, let me introduce to you my assistant, Vanessa.
Vanessa: Whatever. (Music buzzing on headphones)
Doofenshmirtz: (Nervous laugh) She's new. Anyway, at this very moment, termites all over the Tri-State Area will be controlled by me! Using my Termite Controlling Helmet. See? See? The have cute little helmets just like me. (Laughs) I don't want to tell you how long it took to put them all on. So, watch this!
(Termites buzzing)
Soon I will have them devour all the wood in the entire Tri-State Area. Then everyone will have to buy Aluminum Siding from me! (Laughs)
♪ Doofenshmirtz' Aluminum Siding! ♪
You're through, Perry the Platypus. Through! Now it is time for Platypus Flambé! (Laughs maniacally) (At Vanessa) Vanessa, did you bring the little wooden head the termites made?
(Lava bubbling)

Candace: So anyway, I was like, "You talkin' to me?" and she was like all in my face, and-- TERMITES! (Screams, Termites buzzing) Holy cow! (Termites buzzing, Screams)
(Cows mooing)
(Screams)
Phineas: Wow, a stampeding herd of cattle.
Isabella: They're headed straight for town! We gotta do something!
(Cars honking, cows mooing)
Phineas: All we need are a couple of horses and we could-- (Termites buzzing, Horses whinnying) Huh. Let's go! (Western drawl) Let's round us up some cows! Come on, Isabella! Yee-haw!
Isabella: Ooh. (She notices a pony, Harp strumming, pony whinnies)
(Cows mooing, phone rings)
Candace: Oh my gosh! Stacy, I'm, like, in a stampede! It's like-- (Falls into mud, cows mooing) Uh, just a sec.
Phineas: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Hey, Phineas. Phineas?
(Horses whinnying)
PHINEAS! Stacy, I gotta go. (Guitar, Pig squeals)
(Guitar playing, Cows mooing)
(People screaming, Cows mooing, Horses whinnying)
(People screaming)
Phineas: YEE-HAW! Hyah, cow!
(Song: In the Mall)
♪ In the mall ♪
♪ Up and down the escalators in the mall ♪
♪ I got a hankerin' for potatoers in the mall ♪
Isabella: ♪ In the mall ♪
Phineas: ♪ 'Cause pretty soon now it'll be 'bout time to stop for vittles ♪
♪ In the mall ♪
Well, that was delicious.
(Cows mooing)
Hyah!
Candace: A stampede through Downtown? I mean, who does this? Those two are gonna get it! (Screams) Oof!
(Birds chirping)
(Guitar, Bell rings)
Haney: Well, what can I do for you, little lady?
Candace: What have you got to stop a stampede?
Haney: I think I might have just the thing for you. Let's see... A scary wolf puppet!
(Music stops)
Imagine your a cow, You're there minding your own business, chewing your cud with the other heifers when suddenly (Howls) "I'm a very hungry wolf. I like to eat cows. Ooh, I'm so hungry." (Puppet rattling) 
(Candace glowers at Haney)
Haney:Uh, no. Of course not. Oh, a genuine silent cow whistle.
Candace: You sure this will stop a stampede?
Haney: As sure as the day is long.
Candace: Sold!
(No audio, Ding)
Well, what do you know? It works! (Ding, Cows mooing)
Wait, stop! Uh oh. (Screams, Blows whistle) Hey, this cow whistle doesn't work!
Oh, they're so going to get it. (At phone) Mom, they're driving a herd of cattle right through Downtown.
Linda: Well, um, I'm a little busy, sweetie. I'm having my hair done at Babs.
Candace: Oh, yeah, that's perfect! Well, they're coming your way! Quick, look out the window! Do you see any cows?
Linda: That's cute, Candace. Okay, Babs needs to comb me up. Gotta go.
Candace: (Growls)

(TV Static)
Doofenshmirtz: Any last noises, Perry the Platypus? You know that chirping silly noise that you make?
(Perry chatters)
That's the one! (Laughs, Rope burns) Wait, don't touch that button! No, the other one. Yes, that one! That's the one you should not touch! (Gasps, Alarm buzzing)
Female computer voice: Self-destruct sequence initiated.
Doofenshmirtz: Now you've gone and done it!
Vanessa: You put a self-destruct button in a death chamber? I'm so out of here. This is the worst Bring-your-daughter-to-work-day ever.
Doofenshmirtz: Tell your mother you had fun though.
Vanessa: Oh, by the way, I'm taking the last escape pod.
Doofenshmirtz: It's okay, I'll just take the jet pack. Now where did I put that-- Oh, what was I thinking? I put a jet pack in there too? I might as well have given him an escape hatch! I mean-
(Bell ringing)
Well... guess I'm running. (Screaming) Heeelp meee! Help! Ugh! (Screams) Wait! (Stammers) I forgot my little wooden head!
(Explosion!)
Yes! Yes, we are safe!

Phineas: (Western drawl) Yep, just a-lopin' them doggies down the long, lonesome trail. Ain't this livin?
Isabella: (Western drawl) Boy, howdy!
(Truck horns, Cows mooing)
Phineas: They're stampeding again! Quick, head them to the off ramp!
(Cows mooing)
Isabella: They're headed for a cliff!
(Rocks crumbling)
Cow: Phew! (Mooing, thud)
Cow #2: Uh oh.
Phineas: Ferb, strum something! It'll calm them down!
(String breaks, Cows mooing)
(Horses whinnying)
Phineas/Isabella: Yee-haw!
Phineas: Yo, cows. Uh, hyah. (At Ferb) Hey, Ferb. We're fording a stream.
Candace: (Screams) Cactus! Oh! Snakes! Ugh! Scorpions! Oh! (Water splashing)

Doofenshmirtz: (Laughs) You think may think that I am defeated, Perry the Platypus. But I still have my Termite controlling Helmet! (Laughs, Jet pack sputtering; Screams) Save us, Perry the Platypus! Woah. Oh, (Laughs) I survived!
Perry: (Flips switch)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, what was that? Did-did you just hit the reverse switch? Oh, why did I put that on there? I can't even reach it! What is wrong with me, anyway?
(Termites buzzing) (Screams) Wait! Go away! (Screams) Stop! Help me! Help me!

Phineas: Well, this has been fun, but we ought to be getting the herd back into a coral. Where can we find a coral?
(Cows mooing)
Well, that was easy.

Doofenshmirtz: (Screams) Curse you, Perry the Platypus!

Phineas: Huh. That was so awesome.
Isabella: Woo-hoo!
Linda: Hey, kids. Did you guys have fun?
Phineas: Yee-haw!
Isabella: Yo, doggie!
Linda: Good.
Candace: (Grumbling)
Linda: Candace! Are you okay, sweetie?
Candace: I so don't want to talk about it.
Linda: All right. Get in the car, snappy pants. (At the boys) What was that about?
Ferb: I reckon herding cattle ain't for city folk.

End Credits
(Song: In the Mall)
Phineas: ♪ In the mall ♪
♪ Up and down the escalators in the mall ♪
♪ I got a hankerin' for potatoers in the mall ♪
Isabella: ♪ In the mall ♪
Phineas: ♪ 'Cause pretty soon now it'll be 'bout time to stop for vittles ♪
♪ In the mall ♪
(Guitar)
Isabella: Boy, howdy!






 We are doooomed!!
This article covers an essential topic and is in need of major additions and/or work. 
This page should be revised to bring it up to Phineas and Ferb Wiki standards found in the Manual of Style.
(April 5, 2012) 



 ...Because the worst part of the party is the cleanup, am I right?
This article may require clean-up to meet Phineas and Ferb Wiki's standards.
Please improve the article if you can.
(June 18, 2016) 
(Scene opens up showing a movie theater shaped like the Sphinx)
Lawrence: Ooh, you know, kids, this theater was built over 70 years ago in this Neo-Egyptian style. And apparently, there used to be a pharaoh's tomb display with a mummy in a sarcophagus. I mean, you couldn't pick a better place to watch a classic, old mummy movie.
(Lawrence buys the tickets and they walk into the movie theater. They watch the movie)
Explorer: (In movie) There's an inscription here. An...an incantation of some sort. "Owah Tagu Siam!"
(The mummy wakes up at the sound of these words, looking straight at Phineas and Ferb in the audience. The boys stare back, and Phineas turns to his dad)
Phineas: Dad, where do you find a mummy?
Lawrence: Hidden deep in the bowels of the pyramids. (Phone rings) Whoops, better put this on vibrate.
(The mummy is now standing right behind the explorer, poised and ready to pounce)
Explorer: (In movie) The incantation will make the mummy come to life and obey your commands. Well, beat me with a chicken. (The mummy starts beating him with a chicken) Ow! What?! Ooh! Hey! Stop! It's an--ow! Hey!
Phineas: Cool! Dad, is it hard to get into a pyramid?
Lawrence: Yes, indeed. Often you had to negotiate many booby traps that were set centuries before.
(In the movie, the mummy has just stepped on a small rock, apparently a trigger for a booby trap)
Explorer: (In movie) You ridiculous mummy. You just tripped one of your own booby traps. (There is a rumbling noise, and rocks begin to fall on the explorer and the mummy) She's gonna blow! (They run for the exit, barely getting out in time)
Phineas: Awesome booby trap! (at Ferb) Ferb, we should get our own mummy.
(Song: My Undead Mummy)
♪ Ba da ba ba da bah ♪
♪ Let me tell you 'bout my buddy, he's 3,000 years old ♪
♪ He's wrapped in bandages and covered in moldy debris ♪
♪ My undead mummy and me ♪
♪ Mm-mm ♪
♪ If a bully ever tries to poke me in the eye ♪
♪ I'll introduce him to my decomposing guy and he'll flee ♪
(Buford screams)
♪ From my undead mummy and me ♪
(Nose blowing)
♪ All the kids at school are gonna have a conniption ♪
♪ When they get a load of my funky Egyptian emcee ♪
(Record scratch)
♪ My undead mummy and me ♪
♪ Yeah ♪
♪ Undead mummy and me ♪
Phineas: That would be awesome! (At Lawrence) Dad, can we--
Lawrence: (Snoring)
Phineas: Come on, Ferb. We'll be back before he wakes up.
Candace: Oh, those bozos aren't pulling anything on my watch! (Grunts)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb. Where's Perry?

Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. Doofenshmirtz is at it again. It appears that he's purchased a string of odd items: One pound of blood sausage—Ech, that's my grocery list. Here it is. One magnet, one map of the city's drainage pipes and 2 tons of scrap metal. It's in your hands now, Agent P. Over and out.
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba, doo be doo be doo ba ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba... ♪
Computer voice: Dive. Dive. Dive.
(Thud; Metal scraping)

Phineas: Mr. Employee, sir, where's the mummy exhibit?
Employee: (Presses button) Manager assistance requested.
Employee #2: Yes?
Employee: These boys want to know where the mummy exhibit is.
Employee #2: It's in storage. In the basement.
Phineas: Guess who's goin' to the basement!
Woman: Uh, excuse me, where are the restrooms?
Employee: Manager assistance requested.
Employee #2: Yes?
Candace: There they go.
(Door squeaks)
Phineas: Look! Pith helmets! We might be going the right way. Say something pithy.
Candace: That's it. I'm calling Dad.
(Cell phone vibrates)
Lawrence: (Laughs) Ohh!
Candace: Oh, forget it! I'm going in myself.
(Velvet rope barriers clanking)
(Screams)
Phineas: Did you hear that? Maybe it's the mummy.
Candace: (Screams) Eww. My shoe is all squishy!
(Ball rolling, Door and stairs clanking)
Phineas: Uh, Ferb? What are you doing? Woah! Who know looking for mummies would be so much fun? Watch this! (Thud) Ugh!
(Ball rolling)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb, this was our first booby trap! Woo! Hey, look! The storage! We're here!
Candace: Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh, when I catch them... (Ball rolling) (Screams)
(Pipe breaks)
(Pipe and vent clanging)
Candace: Oh, give me a break!
(Ball rolling, Elevator bell)
(Song: I'm Lindana and I Wanna Have Fun! elevator music)
(Candace screams, Ball rolling; Continues screaming)
(Crash)
Candace: Bubble gum? Oh, really old, stale bubble gum! Blaugh! Phineas!

(Water bubbling)
Doofenshmirtz: Almost done, just this one more little bit!
(Suspense music)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus! As usual, your timing is incredible! And by "Incredible", of course I mean: COMPLETELY CREDIBLE! (Laser fires) No use, Perry the Platypus! I made this out of something that cannot be penetrated! Pure evil! And a blend of space-age polymers. You see, Perry the Platypus, I'm going to unleash the water held by this dam into that huge drainage pipe that leads directly to the ocean. The additional water will raise the sea level by 2%, and then my property one block from the shoreline will become beachfront property! (Laughs maniacally) And to release the water from the dam, I've invented a ray, which attracts wood like it attracts metal: The Wood-inator! Which was almost complete until you rudely interrupted me. Oh, look at this, Perry. It's my paintbrush. You know, the one you knocked out of my hand a few moments ago. Maybe you want to take it back from me now, huh? Huh, you want to try? (Laughs) Goodbye, Perry the Platypus! (Laughs maniacally)

Phineas: Owah Tagu Siam! (Air hissing) There's nothing here but fakey promotional lobby junk. For all we know, there might not be such thing as a mummy. (At Mummy Candace) Yeah, I'll be right with you. I mean-- (Gasps)
Candace: Phineas!
Phineas: (Screams; Slams door)
(Egyptian Guitar Solo)
[Candace screams]
Phineas: Wow, I didn't expect them to be so scary. I mean, can you imagine the angry, twisted soul hidden under those bandages?
Candace: Phineas!
Phineas: Makes me shudder. But you know what? We came down here looking for a mummy, and I'm not leaving without one. Let's get him!
(Egyptian Guitar Solo continues)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb. We got our own mummy! Now, how are we going to get it home?

Doofenshmirtz: And...finished! (Button beep)
(Perry chatters)
(Beaver trills)
(Drilling sound)
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: It is working! (Laughs) It is functioning properly!
(Perry chatters)
Doofenshmirtz: (Gasps) Perry the Platypus? You defeated my bubble of pure evil? Ooh! (Lasers firing; Water flooding) Oh, no! What? (Bubble pops) Is my nose really that pointy? (Screaming and grunting)

Phineas: You know what this is? Our second booby trap! (Water splashing) There you are, Perry.
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: WOO-HOO-HOO! OH YEAH! WOO-HOO! OH YEAH! (at Candace) Hey, Candace, you missed all the fun. Allow me to introduce our mummy. (realizes the "mummy" isn't there) Hey, where's our mummy? Mummy? Mummy?
Lawrence: Well, Mummy has supper waiting for us at home. (At Candace) Candace, why are you all wet?
Candace: (Growls)
(In the car)
Ferb: You know, mummies had their brains pulled out through their nose.
Candace: (Scoffs) The lucky ones.

End Credits
(Song: My Undead Mummy)
♪ Let me tell you 'bout my buddy, he's 3,000 years old ♪
♪ He's wrapped in bandages and covered in moldy debris ♪
♪ My undead mummy and me ♪
♪ Mm-mm ♪
♪ All the kids at school are gonna have a conniption ♪
♪ When they get a load of my funky Egyptian emcee... ♪
(Record scratch)
♪ My undead mummy and me ♪
♪ Yeah... ♪
♪ Undead mummy and me ♪






 This article is in need of improvement in the following area(s):





 Clean-up  "...Because the worst part of the party is the cleanup, am I right?"


 The transcript needs scene transitions.





Once these items have been improved, this template may be removed. Added by ~KinHikari ♪ Tatta hitotsu kawaranai mono. Zutto egaiteta yume. ♪ 15:14, May 1, 2015 (UTC).



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Radio announcer: We're giving away free tickets to see everyone's favorite girl rockers - The Bettys.
Candace, Stacy: Eeeee!
Radio announcer: All you have to do is be the 444 and 4/4 caller...
Candace: Ah! I love fractions.
Radio announcer: ...and you and your best Betty buddy will get to ride with the band on The Betty bus to see the show.
Candace, Stacy: Eeeeee!
Radio announcer: Call now.
Candace: (after dialing the phone) Oh, it's busy! I've just gotta win. Clearly I'm your biggest fan. See, even my Betty boombox which rests on my Betty bedside table next to my Betty bed runs on Betty batteries.
Stacy: (Grab her hair) Obsession rocks! (Release her hair)
Candace: I know. (phone rings)
Candace: Ooh, it's ringing!
Phone announcer: Congratulations, you're the winning caller!
Candace, Stacy: EEEEEEEEE!!!!
(later)
Candace: Imagine, a whole day of hanging with Crash and the band. And, as an added bonus, a whole day of not thinking about my goofy brothers. Just me, you and The Bettys! (horn honks) Ooh, they're here.
Lawrence: Bye. Enjoy your music concert.
Linda: Be careful.
Phineas: Have fun on your journey.
Candace: I can't believe we're about to board The Betty Bus.
Stacy: I bet the bus driver's gonna be a spaced-out rocker.
Dennis: H-Hello, girls. My name is Dennis, and I'm with the radio station. (pig snorts) That is Sir Bacon, the band's mascot. According to our focus groups, girls your age overwhelmingly find that cool.
Stacy, Candace: Totally!
Candace: Whoa, this place is a total pigsty.
Stacy, Candace: We love it.
Candace: Look, Stacy, it's them.
Stacy: Shh, they're creating.
Crash: ♪ We're on a bus, between shows. Here comes two chicks nobody knows. ♪
Candace: Aah!
Stacy: We're your biggest fans.
Candace: Yeah, we won the contest. Now we get to hang out with you all day.
Crash: (British accent) Keep it down. We're trying to write a song.
Candace: Sure thing.
Stacy: Oh, no problem.
(Stacy and Candace giggles)
(Crash strums her bass guitar)
Candace: Oh, my gosh!
Stacy: It's The Betty Bass Guitar!
Candace: I know, I know...
(The other two band members sighs)
Crash: Check this out. (at Candace and Stacy) So tell me, girls, would you like to be part of the music-making process and help us write a song?
Candace: Oh, my gosh, oh, my gosh.
Stacy, Candace: Would we?
Crash: Great. First, we can't possibly write a song in this filth, so you girls can start by cleanin' up the bus. Here you go.

Phineas: All right, Ferb, what should we do today? One - an escalator to the moon? Two - become secret agents? Three - clone giant hamsters. Hey, where's Perry? Huh. I wonder where he goes when we can't find him. What the...? Some sort of secret room? Wow. What in the world? A secret underground headquarters with a particle disruptor and, oh, a hovercraft. Looks like we're gonna be secret agents, huh? When did you find the time to build all this, Ferb?
Ferb: Actually, I –
Major Monogram: Hello, Agent P. Hang on. It's here somewhere on this clipboard from which I have yet to look up.
Phineas: Agent P. P for Phineas. Nice touch, Ferb.
Ferb: Actually -
Major Monogram: Ah, yes, here it is. Dr. Doofenshmirtz. Huh, what a surprise. Building some sort of destructo ray. End of the world. Yada, yada, yada. I'm faxing you the coordinates.
Phineas: Cool.
Major Monogram: Good googly-moogly! Do... Carl. Carl, who are those kids?
Carl: Oh, boy. They're Agent P's owners, sir. Looks like they found one of our secret tunnels.
Phineas: Sweet. We got our mission, Agent F. To the hover jet.
♪ Phineas and Ferb, Phineas and Ferb ♪
Major Monogram: Is that the hover jet? Oh, no, they didn't! (at Perry) There you are, Agent P. Those boys are in jeopardy and not covered under our hover jet insurance plan, so, stop Doofenshmirtz and protect those boys. (at Carl) Oh, and where are you going, Mr. The Boys Will Never Find A Tree Tunnel?
♪ Phineas and Ferb, Phineas and Ferb ♪

Phineas: Wow... Laser beam, magnet ray, cup holder. You really thought of everything, Ferb.
Ferb: Actually –
Phineas: Hold that thought. The Bettys' tour bus. Candace is on there. We should go say hi.

Candace: We're all done cleaning the bus.
Crash: Oh, we can't get to our song till we deal with our fan mail. Think you could help?
Stacy: Oh, my gosh, oh, my gosh...
Missy: Great. You can start with this bag.
Tink: (British accent) And here's the shredder.
Stacy: Check this one out.
Candace: Ahem. "Beloved Bettys, your band is the biggest, baddest, most bangin' buncha -" Hey, this is my letter. They didn't even read it.
Stacy: Yeah, but don't forget - we are on the bus helping the band write a song.
Candace: Yeah, I guess you're right. And you know what the best part is? I haven't even thought about my brothers the whole day. (She sees her brothers out the window.) Stacy, look, it's my brothers!
Stacy: Huh? I don't see anything.
Candace: B-But I could've sworn I –
Stacy: I think the cleaning supplies are starting to get to you.
Candace: That must be it. That's gotta be. I'm not even gonna look.

Major Monogram: (voice over) Stop Doofenshmirtz. Protect the boys. Stop Doofenshmirtz. Protect the boys.
Doofenshmirtz: (hums) Ah, nothing like a nice snack before testing the Destructinator. Aah! Hey, Perry the Platypus, why do you always go for the nose?

Candace: Here you go.
Stacy: All 250,000 letters opened and shredded.
Tink: I just thought of something. The outside of this bus is dirty, too.
Candace: You know, Stacy, I'm beginning to think that The Bettys have just been taking advantage of us this whole time.
Stacy: What are you talking about? They've been nothing but... Look out! ...nice to us since we got on the bus.

Doofenshmirtz: Heh-heh. My automatic tennis ball server can go all night, Perry the Plat-
Male computer voice: Destructinator countdown initiated. 30 seconds to activation.
Phineas: Wow, Ferb, this evil villain lair is awesome. I see you carved it out with dynamite. Nice. Aw, cool, you got an automatic tennis ball server. Sweet.
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, what's going on, Perry the Platypus? (muffled speech)

Candace: We're finished washing the outside of the bus. It nearly killed us, but we're finished!
Crash: Great work, girls. You've earned a special "surprise."
Stacy: Really?
Missy: You get to scrub the toilets.
Candace: What?
Stacy: Yay, toilets! They're so much fun to scrub!
Tink: And be sure to get underneath the lid.
Candace: Ah, that is it. We're through being your tour monkeys. Right, Stace?
Stacy: Yay, a Betty Bowl Brush!
Candace: You've just been using us this whole trip. Is this how you treat your fans? It should be your fans that inspire you to make music. If you can't see that by now, then drop me off at the next Betty Bus Stop.
Crash: Unfortunately, guys, she's right.
Tink: I feel like a bit of a Betty butt-head.
Crash: We're sorry for treating you so bad. How can we ever make it up to you?
Missy: I'll let you bang my Betty Bongos.
Tink: Or play my Betty Bass Guitar.
Crash: Hey, guys, that's it.
♪ You gotta bang your Betty Bongos ♪
♪ And bring your Betty Bass Guitar ♪
♪ And with the Betty back-beat ♪ Um...
Candace: ...you'll go Betty, Betty far?
Crash: Perfect. That rocks.
Dennis: Hey, girls, what's goin' on?
Candace: We just helped the Bettys write - Wait a second. Dennis, if you're here, then who's driving the bus?
Dennis: Oh, come on, I'll show you. Autopilot.
Stacy, Candace: Wow, cool.

Phineas: By the way, I love that giant ray gun counting down to zero. OK, seriously, when did you make all this?
Ferb: Look, for the last time, I didn't –

(all scream; Dennis passes out)
Candace: He fainted.
Stacy: Aah!
Candace: Aah! Unh, unh. There's something wrong with the Betty Brakes, and I can't stop the autopilot.
Stacy: Grab the Betty Emergency Brake!
Candace: (gasps) The Betty Brake broke!

Phineas: How did you make a working destructo ray?

All: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH!

Phineas: Hey, that's the bus Candace is on. I get it. We have to save Candace. What a cool mission.
♪ Phineas and Ferb, Phineas and Ferb ♪

Candace, Stacy: AAAAAAH!
Crash: Say, what's all the fussin' about?
Candace: The b-b-bridge! We're gonna crash!!!
All: AAAAAAAAAAH!

(Perry whistles)
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Plat- Oof. Bleah. Curse you, Perry the Plat- Oof. Bleah. Curse you, Perry the - Bleah. Why did I buy so many mops? Oof.

Girls: HELP! HELP!
Phineas: We're coming, Candace.
Girls: AAAAAAAAAH!
Phineas: Agent F, activate the magnet ray. It's too heavy.
Missy: Huh? C-Candace? Whatever you're doing is working.
Phineas: Ferb, you designed this thing. (imitates Captain Kirk) Can you give me any more power? Excellent. We did it. Our sister's safe.
The Bettys, Stacy: (cheer) Brilliant!/You did it!
Phineas: Agent F, let's head home.
Crash: Way to go, Candace. Now we are your biggest fan. How can we thank you?
Candace: Well, you can come to my house and clean up my room.
(all laugh)
Candace: I'm serious.
Crash: How about you sing with us onstage instead?
Stacy, Candace: (both gasp) It's a deal. (both squeal)

Phineas: I can't wait to get home and tell Mom all about our secret spy adventure. Hey, what's goin' on? It's like we're stuck in some sort of tractor beam. Aah!
Isabella: Hi, Phineas. Seriously, Phineas, what are you doing?
Phineas: (imitates James Bond) That, my friend, is classified information.

Linda: Oh, what a great day. Not one phone call from Candace with some crazy, unbelievable story –
Phineas: Mom, guess what Ferb did. He made a secret tunnel and a spy headquarters and a villain's lair and a hover jet shaped like Perry. Tell her, Ferb.
Ferb: Actually, I – !
Linda: Wait a second. Why are you two soaking wet?
Ferb: Ach! I give up! (stomps off)
Phineas: We fell in Isabella's pool.
Linda: That I believe. (at Perry) Oh, hi, Perry. (at herself) I wonder how Candace is doing.
(Shift to the Bettys concert.)
Crash: Oi! We'd like to bring a very special person to the stage. She's not only Bettys' best fan, but she also saved all of our lives! Ladies and gentlemen, Candace, and her best friend Stacy!
(Song: "Ready for the Bettys")
♪ You gotta bang your Betty Bongos ♪
♪ And bring your Betty Bass Guitar ♪
♪ And with the Betty back-beat ♪
♪ You'll go Betty, Betty far ♪
♪ So drop your boring baggage ♪
♪ And come with Missy, Tink and Crash ♪
♪ There's a Betty Bandwagon ♪
♪ Goin' to a Betty Bash ♪
♪ Get ready for The Bettys, ready for The Bettys ♪
♪ Get ready for The Bettys, ready for The Bettys ♪
♪ Ready for The Bettys ♪
♪ Ready for The Bettys ♪
♪ It's the best thing you can do ♪
♪ Best thing you can do ♪
♪ Get ready for The Bettys ♪
♪ 'Cause The Bettys are ready for you ♪
Stacy: What do you think your brothers are doing right now?
Candace: Who cares?

End Credits
(Song: "Ready for the Bettys")
Crash: ♪ Get ready for The Bettys, ready for The Bettys ♪
♪ Get ready for The Bettys, ready for The Bettys ♪
♪ Ready for The Bettys ♪
♪ Ready for The Bettys ♪
♪ It's the best thing you can do ♪
♪ Best thing you can do ♪
♪ Get ready for The Bettys ♪
♪ 'Cause The Bettys are ready for you ♪



(Scene opens up showing the inside of a mouth)
Dr. Hirano: Okay, Isabella. Say "Aaaah".
Isabella: (opens mouth) Ahhhh...
Dr. Hirano: Oh, good. The swelling has gone down dramatically. I'll be back to check on you soon. (exits)
Phineas: So, Isabella, what'cha dooooin'?
Isabella: (Raspy voice) Oh, just recovering. But I finally got my tonsillectomy patch.
Phineas: We just came by to cheer you up. And to see if you're well enough for our event.
Isabella: Sorry, guys. My throat still hurts like crazy.
Phineas: That's cool. Sorry, gang. We've got to postpone the Trojan War reenactment till further notice.
(Reenactment actors leaves, all talking at once)
Phineas: You know, the best part of getting your tonsils out is that you get to eat all the ice cream you want.
Isabella: Really?
Phineas: Mountains of it! We could have the biggest ice cream sundae ever made! (to Ferb) Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! First, we gotta draw up some plans. Wait, no time for that. You go to Blueprint Heaven; I'll head home and meet the delivery guy. (Phone beeps) Hello? Blowtorch City? Yeah, I'll hold. (to Isabella) When are they letting you out of this joint?
Isabella: This afternoon.
Phineas: Perfect, we should have just enough time.
(At Charlene and Vanessa's house)
Charlene: So, I'm going out, Vanessa. Remember, you're at your Dad's this weekend.
Vanessa: Great. A whole 48 hours of evil.
Charlene: Vanessa Doofenshmirtz, your dad's not evil. We just didn't get along. We wanted different things.
Vanessa: Was one of those things "To be evil"? Because he's evil.
Charlene: He's not evil, honey. No one's evil.
Vanessa: No, Mom. He's evil. You don't notice about him? He has evil schemes. Normal people don't have schemes of any kind. And there's this secret agent that always bursts in, and--
Charlene: I think you're being overly dramatic.
Vanessa: Mom, I'm not being dramatic. Dad builds evil contraptions every day. Wait. (Phone beeps) Let me check on something.
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc-- ♪
(Phone beeps) Yup. He's even got his own evil jingle right on his answering machine. (Speed dial) Listen!
Doofenshmirtz: (On Phone) Hello?
Charlene: Oh, hello, Heinz.
Vanessa: Dad! Why did you pick up? You always let the machine get it!
Doofenshmirtz: Well, I heard it ring the first time, so I was standing by the phone. Oh, could you pick up some blueprints for me on your way over? Thank you, sweetie.
(Phone beeps)
Vanessa: Great. Now he wants me to pick up some evil blueprints for his latest evil contraption. And as soon as he's done building it, I'll have proof! I'll call you, and you can see for yourself.
(Inside Blueprint Heaven)
Worker: So, you need plans to build a giant sundae maker, do you? Hmm, I'm not sure if we sell blueprints for that anymore. Whoa! Hold on, sweetie. No need to get upset. I'll go check in the back, okay? Okay. Let's see. Giant sundae machine. I got a yogurt machine! How's that sound? Yeah, I don't care for yogurt either, baby. I'll keep looking. You're in luck. I found one! Now, what do you need, sweetie?
Vanessa: I'm here to pick up an order for Doofenshmirtz.
Worker: Oh, yes. Your Daddy just called.
Vanessa: Hey, how's it goin'?
(At the Flynn-Fletcher home)
Phineas: Can you bring it back here? Thanks. That's great.
Candace: (on her phone) You're not going to believe it, Stacy. But when I turned around, Jeremy was standing right behind me. Well, he was sitting, and he was a couple blocks away, but he was right there!
Phineas: (from outside) Keep it coming, keep it coming! Okay, stop. Great. Stack 'em over here.
Candace: Um, Stace? I'm going to have to call you back.
Delivery Guy: And that's the last of it. Eh, just need you to sign here. Say, aren't you a little...
Phineas: ...Young to be using titanium plating and an industrial arc welder? Yes. Yes I am. I get that a lot.
Candace: Phineas, you know I'm in charge, right?
Phineas: Well, isn't that just if a satellite crashes into the-
Candace: No, no, no! When Mom's at her cooking class, I'm in charge. Now, what are you up to out here?
Phineas: I'd like to tell you, but it's gonna be a big surprise. Hey, wait a second. Have you seen Perry?
(Camera pans over to Perry, who's taking a nap on the lawn)
(Boing)
♪ Perry! ♪
Major Monogram: Sorry to wake you, Agent P. Looks like Doofenshmirtz is getting sloppy. He sent his daughter right into our sting operation and purchased blueprints for a Space Las-inator. We intend to pass him fake plans, but due to a rookie error, and by "rookie", I mean Carl.
Carl: Sorry, my bad.
Major Monogram: The plans he received are real; terrifyingly real.
Carl: Again, I must apologize, I was in character--
Major Monogram: You better step on it, Agent P. Before it's too late.

(In the backyard)
Phineas: Can you give me a hand unpacking this stuff, Candace?
Candace: I'm not gonna help you. But as soon as I figure out what you're up to, I'm calling Mom!
Phineas: Okay. Say Hi for me!
(Phone beeping)
(At the cooking class)
Cooking Instructor: Bonjour, class. Today we will be making crepes Guilbaud.
(Phone rings; Beeps)
Linda: Candace, is everything all right? Well, if you don't even know what he is doing, how do you know if it's a problem?
Cooking Instructor: (Clears throat) Is there something you would like to share with the whole class?
Linda: Sorry, sir. (At Phone) Candace, I'll talk to you later, okay? (Phone beeps)
(In the backyard)
Candace: (Growls) I'm keeping an eye on you.
Phineas: Hey, Ferb. You got the blueprints? Excellent! Isabella's gonna love it!

♪ Doo be doo be doo ba ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, you—you're early. I haven't even started yet. My daughter should be here any minute with the blueprints, though. Oh, there she is. (At Vanessa) Good morning, Vanessa. You remember Perry the Platypus.
Vanessa: Yeah, hi.
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, why don't you have a seat in my waiting area? Read some magazines! Sorry they're in Spanish, I--I steal them from my neighbor. You know, evil never rests.
Vanessa: So, Dad, this plan, it's evil, right?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, yes, yes it is! It's nice to see you taking an interest in the family business.
Vanessa: That's all I need to know. (Phone beeps)
(At the cooking class)
(French music)
Charlene: I'm in class now, Vanessa. I have to go. Mmm-hmm. Mmm-hmm. Yes, Vanessa, I'll leave my phone on. (At Linda) Teenagers. Ugh. What are we making this week?
Linda: I think it's crepes, but you know, I can't understand his accent.

(Song: Busted)
Vanessa: ♪ I can see the things you're doing, and you think that I'm naïve ♪
♪ But when I get the goods on you, she'll finally believe ♪
Candace: ♪ She says it's always drama, but every bubble's got to pop ♪
♪ She's gonna see just what you're doing ♪
Both: ♪ And then you're finally gonna have to stop ♪
♪ Don't think you're gonna win this time ♪
♪ 'Cause you better believe I'm gonna drop a dime on you ♪
♪ I'll get ya (Yeah!) ♪
♪ I'll get ya ♪
♪ And when I do, you're gonna be busted ♪
♪ (Busted!) ♪
Candace: ♪ I don't wanna put the hurt on you ♪
Both: ♪ But you better believe me when I tell you ♪
♪ That I finally got the dirt on you ♪
♪ You're busted (Busted!) ♪
Vanessa: ♪ Yeah, she's finally gonna see the light ♪
♪ This is how it's gonna be ♪
Both: ♪ When she finds out that I was always right ♪
♪ You're busted! ♪

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil, Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Perry the Platypus, it's finally ready! (Button beeps) Too bad you can do nothing but watch as I launch my Space Laser-Inator!
(Beeping)
Vanessa: Wow, I bet that thing must be really evil, huh?
Doofenshmirtz: Vanessa, take a look out that window and tell me what you see.
Vanessa: Uh, not much.
Doofenshmirtz: Exactly! Ever since that stupid billboard went up, my panoramic view is completely ruined. I used to have this perfect vantage point for enjoying the delicious misery of others.
(Flashbacks)
(Car crashes)
Man: Oh, man!
(Bone snaps)
Man #2: Oh, man!
Woman: You owe $78,000.
Man #3: Oh, man!
(Flashbacks end)
Doofenshmirtz: But, after I launch this baby into orbit, my problem will be solved! Then, I can go on to eliminate all the other annoyances that make my skin crawl! Like, uh...nature! (Laser zaps) Beauty! (Laser zaps)
Crowd: Aw.
Doofenshmirtz: Morning talk show hosts!
(Laser zaps)
(Crowd cheers)
Doofenshmirtz: Soon, there will be nothing that can withstand the wrath of Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz!
Vanessa: Doctor? Since when were you a doctor?
Doofenshmirtz: They don't just give these out to anybody, you know.
Vanessa: Anybody with 15 bucks, they do.
Doofenshmirtz: That's enough looking! I'd love to debate you, but I have some pressing business to take care of, like remaking the Tri-State Area in my own, twisted image! (Laughs maniacally)
Vanessa: Oh my gosh! This is worse than I thought! Oh, Dad is going to be so busted.
Vanessa/Candace: ♪ Busted ♪
(At the cooking class)
Cooking Instructor: Now, carefully pour the batter. Slowly, slowly. (Phone rings, Glass smashes)
Charlene: Oh, for Pete's sake! Vanessa?
Linda: Candace, this better be important.
Charlene: He's doing what?
Linda: Honey, are you sure you're not exaggerating just a little bit?
Charlene: Well, it's not that I don't believe you, honey...
Linda: But every time I race home, I find out everything is just fine.
Charlene: Yes, I'll be right over. (Phone beeps)
Linda: I'm on my way. (Phone beeps) Teenagers!
Charlene: Tell me about it.
(The phone burns on the stove)
(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Now, to launch my creation and begin my reign of terror! Evil terror. (Button beeps, whirring; Ding) Huh? Ah. (ice cream splats onto him) Ugh... Well, this can't be right.
(In the backyard)
(Button beeps)
Phineas: Get ready for a giant sundae!
(The inator blasts off)
Phineas: Well, this can't be right. Lemme see those blueprints. Oh, wait a minute. Those are the plans for a Space Laser-inator, apparently. I was wondering what that thing was for. That must be the laser. (briefly, we see the laser on the ground) Good thing we didn't attach it, huh?
(Horror music; Candace is at the door, bouncing and pointing)
Candace: Mom, Mom! Hurry!! Come on, come on!!!
Linda: Hi, kids. How are you doing?
Candace: Huh?
Phineas: We're just about to make a nice handmade ice cream sundae for Isabella.
Linda: Oh, that is so sweet! Come on in the kitchen. I'll help you with it.
(Linda walks in. Candace just says there, frozen)
(Inside the D.E.I. building, Charlene comes up the elevator)
Vanessa: Come on, Mom! Hurry!
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz's apartment, the door opens)
Vanessa (cont.): (with her eyes closed) See?! Evil!! I told you!!!
(horror music)
Charlene: Hmm...um, that's not evil, dear.
(Vanessa looks on horrified, we see Doofenshmirtz covered in ice cream)
Charlene (cont.): Bit much, perhaps. Heinz, what is all this? I thought you were lactose intolerant.
Doofenshmirtz: I am!!
Charlene: (presses button; more ice cream falls) Oh... I'm paying you way too much alimony. (Notices Perry, now in pet mode) And what's over there? That is no way to treat your pet!
Vanessa: But Mom, that's a secret agent!
Charlene: A secret agent? He's just a little platypus. They don't do much, you know.
(Vanessa gives a disgusted look at the camera)
(In Isabella's room, Isabella is presented with a normal sized ice cream sundae)
Isabella: Wow, guys, this is amazing! I was afraid you guys were gonna go overboard and build some giant sundae contraption or something!
Phineas: Actually, we were gonna do that, but we accidentally build a space laser instead. (At Ferb) Ferb, you're usually so focused. How did you get those plans confused?
(Flashback)
(Ferb and Vanessa are at Blueprint Heaven. Ferb stares at Vanessa, she appears to him over a pink background with flowers)
Vanessa: Hey, how's it goin'?
(Flashback ends)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb. Snap out of it. What happened back there?
Ferb: (pause) I was weak.

End Credits
(Song: Busted)
Vanessa/Candace: ♪ There's a new cop on the beat, and I'm bringin' down the heat ♪
Candace: ♪ My eyes are wise to all your lies, 'cause you're not that discreet ♪
Vanessa: ♪ And I don't care what you heard ♪
Both: ♪ 'Cause there's one 6-letter word ♪
Vanessa: ♪ It's gonna set me free ♪
Candace: ♪ Gonna set me free ♪
Vanessa: ♪ It starts with a "B" ♪
Candace: ♪ Starts with a "B" ♪
Both: ♪ Goes "B-U-S-T-E-D", you are busted ♪






 ...Because the worst part of the party is the cleanup, am I right?
This Transcript needs an expanded makeover may require clean-up to meet Phineas and Ferb Wiki's standards.
Please improve the Expenditures if you can.
(June 22, 2016) 



 We are doooomed!!
This article covers an essential topic and is in need of major additions and/or work. 
This page should be revised to bring it up to Phineas and Ferb Wiki standards found in the Manual of Style.
(March 25, 2013) 
(Scene opens up with Phineas and Ferb playing with remote-controlled cars.)
Linda: Hey, boys.
Phineas: Hey, Mom!
Linda: What are you up to today?
Phineas: We're racing our remote-controlled monster trucks. (Remotes clicking)
Linda: I don't see any monster trucks.
Phineas: Oh, that's 'cause we rigged them to go light-speed. You how those stock motors are. They never give you enough action.
Linda: (oblivious) You boys have such active imaginations. You must get it from your father.
(Cut to Lawrence painting a picture by number)
Lawrence: Let's see... Green goes to number 5. (Laughs) I'm painting!
(Cut back outside, we hear a car horn)
Linda: Oh, Charlene's here. I'm off to my cooking class.
Phineas: Bye, Mom. (At Ferb) Final lap, Ferb. (Cars zooming) Aw! Another photo finish. I'm never watching closely enough to see who won.
(In Candace's room)
(Phone rings)
Candace: Despair speaking.
Stacy: Care to explain why "Despair" isn't picking up her cell phone this morning?
Candace: Because of a little thing called PARALLEL PARKING! You see yesterday, Dad was teaching me how to drive...
(Flashback)
Lawrence: Okay, Candace. All you have to do is park between this plastic trash can, and that plastic trash can.
Candace: So I put it in reverse... AAH! AAH! AAH! AAH! AAH! AAH! AAH! AAH! (drives back and forth slamming into the two trash cans)
(Flashback ends)
(moving phone back and forth) AAH! AAH! AAH! (Sobbing) Then Dad said my parallel parking needs a little work! It means I'll never get my driver's license! I'm such a loser.
Phineas: Oh my gosh, Ferb. I can't believe it! I've never noticed how soft our carpets are. But more importantly, we have to help Candace get her confidence back. Any ideas?
(Ferb pulls out blueprint)
Phineas: This is perfect! The Candace Crusher! Nothing says confidence like a monster truck. Hey, where's Perry?

(Slide squeaking)
Major Monogram: Oh, hey Agent P. So, get this: I got this memo this morning on Doofenshmirtz. And somebody abbreviated his name and it- guess how they wrote it. (Pauses) Doof! (Laughs) The Doof! (Laughs again) It's times like these when you really appreciate having a cool name like Monogram.
Carl: And Carl.
Major Monogram: I already told you your name's not that cool. Anyway, do your stuff, Agent P, and stop that- DOOF! (Laughs)

(At the Flynn-Fletcher house; backyard)
Phineas: Take it all the way back. Keep it moving. Waterfall, the orange cones, parts, left to the garage, bleachers, right, um, Giant Baby Head... any where's good.
(Blow torch fizzing, rocks being scooped, drill whirring)
(Fanfare)
Lawrence: (Kisses; Horn honking) Oh, hey boys.
Phineas: Dad, you might want to wipe the queen off your face.
Lawrence: Oh, oh, yeah, thanks. (Notices the monster truck) CRIKEY! A monster truck!
Phineas: Yeah! Isn't it sweet? It's to help to teach Candace how to parallel park and stuff. We figured out if she learned how to drive on of these monsters, she's got the confidence to drive anything.
Lawrence: Oh yeah, brilliant. But I better check with Mom about this. (At phone) Uh, hello honey, yes, yes, oh gosh, I love you too, darling. Uh, are you aware the boys have a monster truck in the backyard?
Linda: Honestly, you're as bad as Candace.
Lawrence: Okay, okay. Just checking. (At Phineas and Ferb) It's a go, boys! I'll get your sister!
(At the cooking school)
Cooking Instructor: Ahem. Madam Flynn, I have told you a hundred times, (Bashes phone) NO PHONE CALLS IN CLASS! (Phone ringing; Laughs) Hello? (At Linda) It is for you.
Linda: Hello?
Candace: Mom, I think the boys are building a monster truck.
Linda: Um, honey, I gotta go. No- B-Big chef. Big meat tenderizer in front of mommy. Bye bye.
(At the Flynn-Fletcher house; backyard)
Candace: Oh, this seems like a good idea.
Phineas: I gotcha.
Candace: Oh, what's the point? I'm never gonna be able to parallel park.
Phineas: Don't worry, sis. It's just to build your confidence.
Lawrence: Okay, don't forget to buckle up.
Candace: But we can't drive here. It's just the backyard.
(Phineas and Ferb pulls rope, revealing the Monster Truck Rally)
Meap!

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Gentlemen, I have a unique investment opportunity for you. I'm sure you're all aware of the popularity of monster trucks, right? But you know, they are not really monsters, just big, stupid trucks! So, I came up with my own line of monster trucks! Behold!
(Electric Guitar)
Very evil, don't you think? And there's even one that looks like me! Look, look! (Laughs) We'll corner the markets! And just to be sure, I have created: The Monster Truck Away-inator! (Dramatic music) You know, to do away with the competition.
Evil Investor: But is it safe to use?
Doofenshmirtz: Sure, let me demonstrate. (Fires laser, shooting at the evil investor) See? It doesn't affect people at all!
Evil Investor: (Head swelling up)
Doofenshmirtz: Except maybe a little swelling, but don't worry, it will go down. You know, probably. Now, watch what it does to this miniature monster truck! (Fires laser; Evil Investors talking at once) I don't know where it sends them, maybe another dimension.
Alien: (Eats the miniature truck)
Doofenshmirtz: Of course, that was just a toy. Let's try it out on a real monster truck. Huh? Which brings me to my next invention. The Monster Truck Locate-Inator! (At Perry) Perry the Platypus? Guess what? That's not a monster truck locate-inator at all! It's a Chinese platypus trap! (Laughs) I got you. Here's the real Locate-inator! Okay, now, where is the nearest monster truck? Yes! Right here in Danville! Okay, everybody, get in me and we'll go.
Evil Investor: Are you sure you want to bring him?
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? Well, yes, of course. He's my nemesis. I have to show him everything.

News Reporter: Good afternoon, Danville! Dink Winkerson here, and this is little Isabella Garcia-Shapiro from Fireside Girl Troop 46231. And she got a little announcement to make.
Isabella: (inhales, man's voice) WEDNESDAY, WEDNESDAY, WEDNESDAY! GIANT MONSTER TRUCK RALLY RIGHT HERE IN DANVILLE! CANDACE THE CRUSHER TAKES ON ALL COMERS! BE THERE, BE THERE, BE THERE! WE'LL GIVE YOU THE WHOLE SEAT, BUT YOU'LL ONLY NEED THE EDGE! (normal voice, giggles) Thanks, Dink.
(At the Flynn-Fletcher house; backyard)
Phineas: All right, Candace. All you have to do is maneuver through this traffic cone course.
Candace: Oh. So I put it into drive... AAH! AAH! AAH! AAH!
Phineas: I don't think we're gonna get a deposit back on those cones. Okay, Candace. All you have to do on this test is go up this gentle incline.
Candace: Dad, you look nervous.
Lawrence: No, of course not. I- I have full confidence in you.
(Rock music)
Candace: Phineas, this incline is getting kind of steep!
Phineas: Don't worry, Candace. It gets steeper!
(Monster truck revving)
Next, the break portion of the test.
(Squeaking; Crowd cheering)
Candace: (Gasps) I can't believe I did it!
Lawrence: (Breaks handle) Oh, well done!

Doofenshmirtz: Okay, left on to Maple Drive, and here we are! Oh, great. There's no parking spot! I should've invented a Parked Car Away-Inator.
Evil Investor: Oh, ja! That is something that I vould buy.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, look at him. He's got a big head, suddenly some sort of marketing genius.

(At the Flynn-Fletcher house; backyard)
Lawrence: Oh, well done, Candace! Let's- (Cars revving)
Monster Truck Driver: You're Candace the Crusher?
Candace: Yes...?
Monster Truck Driver: I heard pigs could fly, but now I've seen everything! (Laughs)
Candace: That doesn't make any sense.
Monster Truck Driver: It doesn't have to; I got a monster truck! Woohoo..!
Lawrence: Candace, those dudes need to suck our mud!
(Song: Truck Drivin' Girl)
♪ Now let me tell you all the story 'bout a truck driving girl ♪
♪ In a custom made monster truck she took for a whirl ♪
♪ That little speed demon's gonna be a star ♪
♪ With her learner's permit and an adult in the car ♪
♪ She may be out for a long, but she can't parallel park, ♪
♪ She's a truck drivin' girl! She's a truck drivin' girl! ♪
(Guitar solo)
Candace/Lawrence: AAH!
♪ Well, then someday she'll get her license and she'll have it all ♪
♪ She can pick up her friends and take a drive at the mall ♪
♪ That little redhead's gonna rock my world, ♪
♪ She's a truck drivin' girl! She's a truck drivin' girl! ♪
♪ She's a tire-spinning, gear-grinding, clutch-burning, backfiring, paint-trading, red-lining, overheating, throttle-stomping truck drivin' girl! ♪
Phineas: It's a photo finish! The winner will be decided by our final event: The Parallel Parking Challenge!
Candace: Parallel Parking?
Monster Truck Driver: Ha ha! You're goin' down, girlie! Check out the finesse! (Backs up car, hits trash can) AAH! AAH! AAH! AAH...!
Lawrence: See, Candace? Even a trained professional has trouble from time to time. Now, I want you to just relax, and park this car!
Candace: (Parks car) Yes!
Ferb: (Playing Fanfare)
Phineas: Perfect!
(Crowd cheering)

Doofenshmirtz: Time for some Monster Truck Away-Inating! Okay, steady now... Here we-
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? But-but, but how did you get out of the Chinese platypus trap?
Man: Ancient Chinese secret. (snip snip)
Doofenshmirtz: I don't remember inviting him. (At Perry) No, wait! Perry the Platypus! No, no! Please! Don't turn the dial to the "Doofenshmirtz mobile and Evil Investors away-inator"! (Perry flips switch) I have to rethink my dials. (Car disappears)
Evil Investors: Hey, look guys! My swelling went down!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, shut up.
Alien: (Eats Doofenshmirtz and evil investors; Burps)
Doofenshmirtz: (Bubble pops) Curse you, Perry the Platypus!

(At the Flynn-Fletcher house; backyard)
Candace: I did it!
Lawrence: I'm proud of you, darling. You really made them eat mud.
Candace: (Comes out of monster truck and falls onto mud)
Monster Truck Driver: Gotta admit it girl. You're good.
Phineas: Hey, aren't you Buck Buckerson? The famous monster truck rally promoter?
Buck Buckerson: That's right, and me and my boys are headed to a rally up in Badgertown. Only the track up ain't near as good as this one.
Phineas: You can have ours. We're through with it.
Buck Buckerson: That's mighty nice of you. Haul her away, boys.
Linda: Thanks for the ride, Charlene.
Ferb: (Presses button and monster truck turns into car)
Phineas: Hi, Mom.
Linda: Candace, why on earth are you all covered in mud?
Ferb: Because she's a tire-spinning, gear-grinding, clutch-burning, backfiring, paint-trading, red-lining, overheating, throttle-stomping truck drivin' girl.
Candace: And I learned how to parallel park!
Linda: Great!

End Credits
(Song: Truck Drivin' Girl)
♪ Well, then someday she'll get her license and she'll have it all ♪
♪ She can pick up her friends and take a drive at the mall ♪
♪ That little redhead's gonna rock my world, ♪
♪ She's a truck drivin' girl! She's a truck drivin' girl! ♪
Ferb: ♪ She's a tire-spinning, gear-grinding, clutch-burning, backfiring, paint-trading, red-lining, overheating, throttle-stomping ♪
♪ Truck driving girl! Yeah! ♪






 ...Because the worst part of the party is the cleanup, am I right?
This transcript may require clean-up to meet Phineas and Ferb Wiki's standards.
Please improve the transcript if you can.
(September 8, 2012) 
(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Linda: What a beautiful summer day. Do you boys have anything exciting planned?
Phineas: We're either gonna make this nuclear-powered submarine or this incredible shrinking ray. But for some reason, Ferb and I can't seem to make up our minds.
Linda: Well, I've made up my mind. (hugs them) You two have the most wonderful imaginations.
Candace: It's real, you know.
Linda: What's real, dear?
Candace: The submarine? The shrinking ray? They're really gonna build that stuff.
Phineas: (walks up) Well, actually we haven't (Candace pushes him away with her spoon) decided yet--
Candace: (talking fast) Anyway, when I try to bust them, everything will just magically disappear. Always happens. you'll see. Well, you won't see. I'll see, trust me.
Linda: (Oblivious) As usual, the imagination in this room is astounding! (walks away)
(Candace's cell phone rings)
Candace: (With the spoon in her mouth) Hello?
Jeremy: (On phone) Hi, Candace. (cut to him) It's Jeremy. I was wondering if you wanted to go for a walk today?
(Candace spits out her cereal then daintily wipes her mouth with a napkin)
Candace: I would very much enjoy going for a walk. Wherever shall we go?
Jeremy: To my uncle's restaurant?
Candace: Yes! That sounds do-able! Why not pick me up around noon? Okay! Goodbye. (hangs up, dials) Oh, my gosh! Guess who just called and asked me out on a date!
Stacy: (On phone) Who!?
Candace: Jeremy!
Stacy: (On phone) Ahh!
Candace: Ahh!
Stacy: (On phone) Ahh!
Candace: Ahh!
Stacy: (On phone) Hold on! Let's conference in Jenny!
Candace: Okay! (dials) Ahh!
Stacy/Jenny: (On phone) Ahh!
Candace: Ahh!
Stacy/Jenny: (On phone) Ahh!
Candace: Ahh!
Stacy/Jenny: (On phone) Ahh!
Candace: Ahh!
Stacy/Jenny: (On phone) Ahh!
Candace: Ahh!
Phineas: (overlapping) LET'S GO OUTSIDE!
(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Phineas: Submarine, shrinking ray. I just can't make up my mind!
Isabella: (offscreen) What'cha doooin'?
Phineas: Oh. Hi, Isabella.
Isabella: (Walks up walking her dog) Hi, Phineas! You remember Pinky.
(Close up of Pinky)
Phineas: (offscreen) Oh, yeah! Hi, Pinky!
Isabella: (Showing her Fireside sash) Hey, check out my new sash! It's got all my accomplishment patches sewn onto it. (holds aforesaid sash in front of him) See?
Phineas: Wow. That looks totally irreplaceable.
(Pinky jumps up and swallows Isabella's sash.)
Isabella: Oh no! Pinky, I need that sash for a Fireside Girls ceremony this afternoon!
Phineas: Don't worry, Isabella, we'll get your sash back.
Isabella: But how? It's in Pinky's stomach.
(Ferb holds up the blueprints.)
Phineas: Hmm... (realizing) Ferb, you're a genius! Hey, where's Perry?
(Camera pans to Perry, who's hiding behind the fence. He puts on his fedora and then enters in a code on a panel. A fence post catapults him, an entrance opens, and he falls into it. After a quick "shot" of him sliding down in a tube, he's in his lair about a minute later.)
Major Monogram: Agent P, thanks for coming. It's Dr. Doofenshmirtz. He's been hiding out in the old abandoned vacuum cleaner factory. You know, at building across town with the giant vacuum cleaner on top? Man, I can't believe that place closed. I blame the Internet. (pause) Your mission, Agent P, is to find out what Doofenshmirtz is up to and then stop him.

(Scene shifts to the garage)
Isabella: So, how are we gonna retrieve my sash?
Phineas: Here. Ferb made this multimedia presentation. We shrink the sub down with Ferb and me in it and put in Pinky's dog food. After he eats us, the sub extrudes two mechanical arms, which fold up the sash to microscopic size and pull it into the sash storage unit. Finally, we pilot up into the mouth and have Pinky drool us out. Easy.
Isabella: Gross, but cool! But Pinky will eat anything but dog food. He likes grilled cheese sandwiches.
(Pinky pants excitedly)
Phineas: Not a problem. You make the sandwich. We'll make the sub.
(Ferb imitates Pinky's excited panting)
Man: Okay. A subatomic shrinking module, hydrostatic ballast tank, and a case of AA batteries. Sign here, please.
Phineas: Aren't you wondering if we're a little young to be building a submarine?
Man: Yes, yes I am.
Phineas: Yeah. We get that a lot.
Isabella: One grilled cheese sandwich, hot off the... Oh, cool!
Phineas: Hey, Isabella. You're just in time.
Isabella: You guys amaze me.
Phineas: When we're inside, we'll activate the shrinkage. You take care of the rest.
Isabella: Check it out, Pinky, your favorite.
(engine whirring)
Phineas: Ready?
(After a blue button is pushed, the submarine shrinks then lands into the grilled cheese sandwich.)
Isabella: It worked! All right, Pinky-Winky, time for some cheesy-weesy!
(A black cat yowls and Pinky's ears perks up. The cat hisses then runs off with a barking Pinky in pursuit.)
Isabella: (While running after Pinky) No, Pinky! Chasing the cat is so cliche! You're better than that!
Candace: (after opening the door to the garage) Listen up! Jeremy will be here any second and I wanna tell you... (notices the grilled cheese sandwich) Ooh, grilled cheese, my favorite. Might as well eat now, so I don't look like a pig on my date.

♪ Doofenshmirtz's Abandoned Vacuum Cleaner Factory! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? I... You know, we always do the same thing. I have a scheme, you try to stop me, I trap you, I tell you my scheme, you escape, then we fight, and I'm defeated. Let's mix it up a little. Let me tell you what. I will tell you my scheme first and then I will trap you! What do you say, huh? Yes, this is much better. Okay, so here it is. The Make-Up-Your-Mind-inator! (chuckles) You know, when you're waiting to order a pizza and the person in front of you can't decide on a topping. Ohh, I hate that! I hate it! (mumbles) I will destroy anyone who can't make up their mind!
(Echoes) Destroy anyone who can't make up their mind!
(Flashback)
Phineas: Ferb and I can't seem to make up our minds.
(Flashback ends. Perry becomes enraged)
Doofenshmirtz: Should I go with Make-Up-Your-Mind-inator? Or is that too-on-the-nose? It's funny. Now I can't make up my mind. Oof! (Perry attacks Doofenshmirtz in a frenzy and cuffs him to a wall) Perry the Platypus! What are... Well, I--I did not see that coming.
(Perry clamps the other handcuff onto a pipe)
Doofenshmirtz: Calling headquarters, huh? Hmm. Yes, you—you didn't even give me a chance to trap you.
(Camera pans to a giant snow globe)
Doofenshmirtz: See? I was going to put you in that giant snow globe over there. (Camera switches back to him) Now I have to return it.
Major Monogram: Agent P! What's wrong? Oh! You caught Doofenshmirtz, huh? That's weird. Usually he traps you, then you escape and then...
Doofenshmirtz: We mixed it up a little!
Major Monogram: Hang tight, Agent P. Backup is on the way. I mean, it would be, if we had some. Uh, I'm gonna make some calls.

(Scene shifts to Candace, still in the garage, enjoying the grilled cheese sandwich)
Candace: Oh, yeah. (chewing noisily) This is good.
Phineas: It worked! Pinky's chewing! Prepare for swallowing!
(Doorbell rings)
Candace: (Gasps) Jeremy's here! (Gulps)
Phineas: Whoa! Whaah! (Sonar pinging) Wow. Pinky's neck is really long.
(Scene cuts to the front door)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Hi, Jeremy.
Phineas: Whoa!
Candace: (Belches) Heh heh. Heh. Excuse me.
Phineas: We did it, Ferb! We're inside Pinky. How about a little road trip music?
(Song: Hemoglobin Highway)
♪ Just the two of us ♪
♪ In an esophagus ♪
♪ It's time to get this mission rollin' ♪
♪ Don't wanna make a fuss ♪
♪ But that was the pancreas ♪
♪ Look down before we reach the colon ♪
♪ On the hemoglobin highway
♪ (Hemoglobin...) ♪
♪ In a mini submarine ♪
♪ (Mini submarine...) ♪
♪ If you're goin' my way ♪
♪ You'll see what I mean ♪
♪ Hang a left at the spleen... ♪
Phineas: Now to find that sash. Hey, tacos! Ah, tacos. You know who makes the best tacos? Mom. These kind of remind me of the ones we had... for dinner last night. Hey, Pinky didn't have dinner with us. Wait a minute. Candace's favorite cereal?
(Phineas's cell phone rings)
Phineas: Hello?
Isabella: Phineas, where are you? Pinky ran away, and when I came back, the sandwich was gone!
Phineas: Okay, let me call you back. (to Ferb) Yeah, we're inside Candace's stomach.
Ferb: That's creepy on so many levels.

(Scene shifts to the abandoned vacuum cleaner factory)
Doofenshmirtz: (Looking at his watch) This backup of yours is taking forever. (Points to the left while Perry gets up and stretches) I have a travel chess set in my bag over there. (Perry walks in the opposite direction) Do you play chess? (Still pointing to the left) Over there, actually.
(Perry opens the bag to the right, only get trapped by a magnet belt)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha ha ha ha! I tricked you, Perry the Platypus! (Takes a hairpin from his hair then uses it to pick the lock on the handcuff) Do you like my Any-Flat-Surface-Magnet-Belt? It sticks to any flat surface. Hee hee hee hee. Guess what? There's no travel chess set in this bag, either. (gets trapped by the other magnet belt) There was one of these in both bags, so whichever one you chose, you would be stuck. Just like I'm... stuck... right now. What, uh... wh-what time is that backup getting here again?

(Scene shifts to the mini submarine)
Phineas: Oh, here we are. Let's tap into Candace's nerve center so we can see what she sees. Ears. Eyes. Look, we're getting an image. She's on her date with Jeremy. That means we're on a date with Jeremy.
Ferb: Again, creepy on so many levels.
(Candace's cell phone rings)
Candace: Oh, excuse me. My phone is ringing. Hello?
Phineas: Candace, I know this sounds weird, but Ferb and I shrunk down in a submarine. We were in that sandwich you ate, and now we're in your stomach.
(Candace chuckles nervously)
Candace: Are you wacko? Don't call me!
Phineas: Wait! We can prove it! (to Ferb) How do we prove it? "(Ferb pulles up a feather duster to tickle Candace's insides)
Candace: (Laughing) Whoo! Yeah! (Whispering harshly) What is going on?
Phineas: Hey, monkey bars. Do you still get sick when you hang upside down?
Candace: Yeah. Why?
Phineas: Sorry, Candace. We have to help Isabella. So, arms and legs!
Jeremy: Candace, are you okay?
Candace: Heh heh. Heh. Never better. Never better! (straining) Phineas, I'm going to... (Gulps)
Phineas: It's working! All right! Yeah! What happened?
Jeremy: Candace, you sure you're okay?
(Candace gulps)
Jeremy: Come on, my uncle's restaurant is right over here.
Phineas: Any other ideas? "(Ferb pulls out the feather duster again and tickles the inside of Candace's throat)"
Candace: (Coughs, clears throat) I have a tickle in my throat. (Clearing throat)
Jeremy: Stay right here. I'm gonna go get some water.
(Candace coughs out the sub, it returns to normal size and Phineas and Ferb come out)
Phineas: We did it!
Candace: You guys are so busted!
Phineas: Oh, hey, Candace.
(Speed dial)
Linda: (on the phone) Hello?
Candace: Mom, Phineas and Ferb built a SHRINKING SUBMARINE!
Linda: (on the phone) Candace, I'll see it later. Right now, I have to swing by Jeremy's uncle's restaurant and pick up some sandwiches for your father.
Candace: Perfect!

(Scene shifts to the exterior of the abandoned vacuum cleaner factory. Doofenshmirtz leaves it through a boarded-up window.)
Doofenshmirtz: Farewell, Perry the Platypus!
(Perry follows after Doofenshmirtz. The two then uses the magnet belts to reach the top of the giant vacuum cleaner.)

(Scene cuts to Candace running towards Linda , she grabs her just as she was about to lock the car door)
Candace: Mom Mom Mom?! Submarine submarine!

(Scene shifts to the top of the giant vacuum cleaner. Doofenshmirtz's magnet belt snags on the switch.)
Doofenshmirtz: (screaming) (falls into the submarine)
(Perry's magnet belt also snags on the switch, which this time turns the vacuum cleaner on.)
♪ Perry! ♪
(The giant vaccum cleaner sucks up the submarine)
Candace: See? It's a submarine!!!
(All that's there is only the unveiled sub sandwitch with the "Uncle Joe's Subs" sign on it)
Candace: (facepalms) URRRG!
Linda: So... (walks away) imaginative.
Isabella: Hey, I been lookin' everywhere for you guys! Pinky threw up and I got my sash back!
Phineas: Hmm. Gross, but cool. Speaking of pets...
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: Where ya been, Perry?
Jeremy: Candace, I have a surprise for you. Check it out.
Candace: Sandwich menu? "The Candace Special"? Oh, you had a sandwich named after me?
Jeremy: Yeah. Grilled cheese, 'cause I know it's your favorite.
(Inside the submarine, Doofenshmitz accidentally leans on the blue button. It shrinks and then lands inside the grilled cheese sandwich.)
Jeremy: Shall we eat inside?
(Scene shifts to the interior of the sandwich shop)
Candace: This is the end of a perfect day. My very own sandwich! I can't wait to try it!
(Pinky whimpers, jumps up, eats Candace's sandwich, and then belches.)
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Platypus!

End Credits
(Pinky's in his basket, sleeping and snoring)
Doofenshmirtz: Hello? Where am I? Oh, it's all gastrointestiney in here. Hmm... Brain. (gasps) I'm inside a dog!
(Pinky wakes up in surprise then glares)
Doofenshmirtz: Perfect. Now I can pee all over the Tri-State Area! Ha ha ha ha ha! (sighs) Oh, what am I doing with my life?



Part I
(Scene opens up showing the Danville Museum of Natural History)
Lawrence: Hey, you know, kids, these fossils are of creatures that lived here in Danville millions of years ago.
Linda: Lucky these things aren't here today.
Candace: No, lucky would be if we weren't still here today.
Lawrence: Oh, look. This T-Rex footprint was found not 30 yards from this very spot. Hey, it says here that this fossil was dug up right near our very own neighborhood.
Phineas: Didn't we have a dog named Bucky who got sick and went to live on kindly Old Man Simmons' farm?
Lawrence: Oh, uh, let's move on, shall we? This exhibit is kindly Old Man Simmons—Hey! Who's up for milkshakes?
Phineas: Hmm? (Angelic chorus. Ferb taps on his shoulder as Phineas looks over. Suddenly, his eyes get huge.) "Gadgets Through the Ages". This exhibit was made for us, Ferb. Hey, what are all those people looking at?
Tour Guide: And this is one of our curious pieces, a time machine made by a 19th century scientist named Xavier Onassis. But, of course, we know he never finished it, or else we'll still see him here today. (Laughs) Right? Right? Eh, anyone? All right. Moving on.
Phineas: A time machine, huh? Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
Ferb: (Pulls out screwdriver)
Phineas: Right. Let's fix us a time machine. Hey, where's Perry?

(Suspense music; Snapshots)
(Camera pans to Major Monogram, then Perry, then back to Major Monogram, then back to Perry)
Perry: (Arms waving)
Carl: Uh, Agent P? Hey, it's me: Carl. The intern? We got a bit of a situation here. Major Monogram has been frozen like this pretty much all day. Solid as a rock. Oh, sorry. Anyhow, if the Major were able to, I'm sure he'd say, well, "Ouch", first of all, am I right? (Laughs) But seriously, I'm sure he'd say "Doofenshmirtz was up to something, and you should get to the bottom of it". (At Major Monogram) Am I right? Sir?
Major Monogram: (Indistinct mumbling)
Carl: I'm gonna take that as a yes. Good luck, Agent P.

Linda: And this fossil is the only representation of the glichiolous species from the Jurassic era. How exciting.
Candace: (Growls) Why do I have to endure this suffering while Phineas and Ferb are off who knows where doing who knows-- (Gasps) What are you doing?
Phineas: Fixing a time machine.
Candace: (Gasps) You broke the exhibit?! I'm telling Mom!
(Electricity fizzing)
What are you doing? (Gasps) You broke the exhibit?! I'm telling Mom!
Phineas: Cool.
Isabella: Hey guys. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: We're fixing this time machine.
Isabella: Isn't that kinda impossible?
Phineas: That's a possibility.
Isabella: Good luck. My troop and I are going to the local fossils exhibit. Catch up with you later!
Phineas: Bye.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incoporated! ♪
(Water bubbling and splashing)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh! Take that! And that! Perry the Platypus! I, uh, I uh, uh... There's no one else here. I mean, w-what are you doing here, Perry the Platypus?
(Knob jostling)
Heh. I have mice? I- I wouldn't go in there if I were you!
(Blinking)
Perry the Platypus, I swear, I've never seen this secret agent looking panda before. (laughs) Well, there's a panda in my closet and a panda paw print on my cheek. But it's not what you think. We're not enemies, we're just bad friends.

Candace: Mom! Mom! Evidence!
Officer: Whoa, whoa, whoa, there, little missy. There's no yelling. Didn't you see the sign?
Candace: Oh, that's right. It's a museum. I wouldn't want to WAKE anyone up!
Boy: You got tossed out too, huh?
Candace: Yeah, for yelling.
Boy: You yelled in the museum? That is hardcore.
Candace: Why'd you get thrown out?
Boy: Stole a pterodactyl. It's not like I yelled.
Candace: You gotta help me sneak back in! Please, please, please!
Boy: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, okay. I've got a plan so ingenious it involves military-like stealth, precision and timing. (Screams)
Officer: We got us a yeller at quadrant to 6!
(Jazz music)
(Register dings)
Candace: Hi, Jeremy.
Jeremy: Oh, hey, Candace.
Candace: They have a slushy dog here.
Jeremy: Yeah, it's new. I'm so bored. Feels like by the time my shift is over, I'll be a part of the fossil exhibit.
Candace: (Laughs) Part of the fossil exhibit, that's a good one! (Laughs) Oops, gotta go. That was close.
Phineas: Okay, Ferb. We're ready to test the circuit quanta stabilizers. Testing.
Candace: Mom!
Linda: Did you hear something?
Candace: (Laughs) Part of the fossil exhibit, that's a good one! (Laughs)
Jeremy: Yeah, um, where did you run off to?
Candace: What do you mean? I didn't go anywhere.
Jeremy: Right.
Phineas: Testing #2.
Jeremy: So, can I get you something?
Candace: (Laughs) Part of the fossil exhibit, that's a good one! (Laughs)
Phineas: We are a go on #3.
Candace: Hi, Jeremy.
Jeremy: Candace, you're really kind of freaking me out.
Officer: Say, aren't you a little young to be working in a museum?
Phineas: Yes. Yes I am.
Officer: Well, it's nice to see young people taking an interest in history. Can I get you boys anything? Anything at all?
Phineas: Actually, there seems to be a piece missing. It looks sorta like this. Have you seen it?
Officer: Hmm. Looks familiar. I'll keep my eye out for it.

(Chorus vocalizing)
Doofenshmirtz: Sorry, Perry the Platypus, I didn't want you to find out this way. Okay, here it is. Peter the Panda is my new nemesis. We met at an evil genius expo in Seattle, and, well, me and Peter, we instantly disliked each other. And then, he foiled a little evil scheme of mine. And, I didn't plan it that way, it just happened. (At Peter the Panda) Peter the Panda, be a dear and go get us a soda. (At Perry) It's not that I don't hate you anymore. I do, but look, I-- I just think it's time for us to, you know, take a break and start fighting other people. (At Peter the Panda) Thank you, Peter the Panda. (Sips) (At Perry) I'd offer you one, Perry the Platypus, but I-- I think it's better if we just have a clean break. Don't you? So, where was I? Oh, yes. (At Peter the Panda) So, Peter the Panda, you think you have outwitted me! (At Perry) Perry the Platypus, you're—you're making this harder than it needs to be. Go on, it's over now. Oh, that? That's a Freeze-Inator ray but, uh, I-- I don't want to explain it again. I just gave the whole spiel to Peter. But, don't worry. He's stopping me. He's-- He's got it well in hand. Goodbye. (At Peter the Panda) Curse you, Peter the Panda!

Candace/Officer: (Screams)
Officer: You? I thought I tossed you out! Hey, what's this? Stealing a part of a display is serious. Almost yelling serious.
Phineas: And last, but not curcuitly not least. Heh, heh.
Officer: Huh?
Candace: Mom!
Officer: Can I get you boys anything? Anything at all?
Phineas: Well, uh, yeah. Like I said before, we seem to be missing this piece.
Officer: Hmm. Looks familiar. I'll keep my eye out for it. Ah! Here it is!
Phineas: Cool. Thanks.

(Song: "When We Didn't Get Along")
♪ Without you're schemes, my life it seems, is empty ♪
♪ I spent all my time keeping you from doing wrong ♪
♪ You we're my only nemesis, I foiled my plans, but still I miss ♪
♪ The moments When We Didn't Get Along ♪
♪ So search your heart, please Dr. D, and I am sure that you will see ♪
♪ That you were always meant to be my only lifelong enemy ♪
♪ But now you're doing battle with a panda from Seattle ♪
♪ I'll miss the moments When We Didn't Get Along ♪
♪ Ooh ♪

Lawrence: Darling, can I have $5 for the audio tour?
Linda: Sure. Amateurs.
Candace: Mom! Phineas and Ferb are in the "Gadgets Through the Ages" exhibit, and they're doing something to this chair thing, and Ferb is using this hose thing that makes sparks, and he's wearing this mask that goes like this! (Waves hand) And you have to come with me right now! Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please!
Linda: Well, if it's that important to you.
Candace: Really? Did I ever tell you how much I love you? They're this way! Hurry, hurry! They're in here!
Phineas: Ferb, you got that thing working yet?
(Ferb twists the light bulb onto the time machine. It starts to glow)
Candace: Gotcha! You guys are so-o-o-o-o bust--
(The time machine disappears right before she could get the words out)
Linda: Candace, how am I supposed to keep up? (enters the exhibit) Candace?
(Shift to a jungle in 300 million B.C., the time machine appears)
Phineas: Well, it's working now.
Candace: What? What's working?
(Pterodactyl screeching, Unknown monsters running; Volcano blows up)
Monster: Looloolooloolooloolooloolooloo!
Candace: Take me home, take me home, take me home, take me home, take me home, take me home!
Phineas: Sure, Candace. No problem.
(Smash; Dinosaur roars; Last piece smashes)
Ferb: This could be a problem.

Part II
Scene opens up showing a dinosaur growling at Phineas, Ferb, and Candace.
Candace: (Whimpering)
Phineas: Whatever you do, keep your voices low, and no sudden movements.
Candace: (Screams)
Dinosaur: (Roaring)
Phineas: Wow, it worked. Let's go save Candace! Follow that T-Rex! Wait, we don't have helmets.
Candace: (Screams)
Dinosaur: (Roaring)
(Splat)
Candace: (Screams)
Man: (On tape player) We hope you enjoyed your audio tour of Fossils.
(Dramatic music)
If you'd like to take the tour again, just flip the tape.
Lawrence: I can do that? Hey, I don't remember seeing this part. Hmm, (Laughs) well, it looks just like Candace. Hey, honey, you gotta see this!
("Phineas and Ferb Theme" instrumental)
(Motor revving, mud sloshing)
Lawrence: Look, I'm telling you, it's the most peculiar thing I've ever seen. It looks just like Candace.
Linda: Hmm. That's not very nice, dear.
Candace: I'll hide in the bush! (Screams)
Monster #2: (Screams)
Candace: (Screams)
Monster #2s: (All screaming)
Candace: (Panting)
(Dinosaur roaring)
Phineas: Hey, Candace. What are you doing?
Candace: I'm running for my life! What does it look like?!
Phineas: Well, hop on! (At Ferb) Hit it, Ferb!
(Dinosaur roaring)
Fantastic motoring, Ferb!
Candace: Why am I wearing a turtle on my head? (Screams)
Phineas: Hey, what a stroke of luck! Look!
Candace: And how is this better?
Phineas: This one's a vegetarian.
(Pterodactyls screeching)
Candace: So it's not gonna eat us?
Phineas: Nope.
Candace: Woo-hoo.
Phineas: Uh, excuse me? Yoo-hoo, down here. Hi, we're made of meat, ma'am. Thanks. Wow, isn't this amazing?
Candace: You guys better figure out a way to get us home. 'Cause if we don't get home, I can't bust you for this!
Phineas: Hey, that looks familiar. Guys, come here. Anyone recognize that bad boy?
Candace: Uh, that looks like a footprint from the beast that tried to eat me alive.
Phineas: And, it happens to be the very same footprint that's fossilized in the museum.
Candace: Great. But how does that help us get out of prehistoric times?
Phineas: Watch and learn.
(Back in the present...)
Isabella: It looks like a T-Rex footprint to me. (notices a message in the dinosaur footprint) Hey, look! A message! "Time machine destroyed! Stuck in 300,000,000 BC. Please help! Signed Phineas, Ferb, and Candaaaaaccccce." Our friends need our help. Please turn to the "Time travel" section of your Fireside Girls handbook. Hey, has anyone seen Perry?

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (Screams) Ow! Easy, easy, you're tearing it! Eh, oh. I remember when this picture was taken. It was the happiest day of my life. (Snapshot) It was the day I decided get my picture taken. But, it wasn't till I got outside the photo store, that my life changed forever. I had a feeling that there was someone hiding behind the mailbox. I had a nemesis!
(Song: "My Nemesis")
♪ My neme neme, ooh, my neme neme neme (X2) ♪
♪ I used to sit alone doing evil all day, but now I think that someone's gonna get in my way ♪
♪ Yeah, there's someone in my life that doesn't want me to exist ♪
♪ My neme neme, ooh, my neme neme neme ♪
♪ And I feel fine, 'cause I got a nemesis ♪
♪ My neme neme, ooh, my neme neme neme (X2) ♪
♪ Now I hate him, and he hates me, what a wonderful animosity ♪
♪ Besides his hat, he wears no clothes, now I have someone to oppose ♪
♪ 'Cause I have a nemesis ♪
♪ My neme neme, ooh, my neme neme neme ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ My neme neme, ooh, my neme neme neme ♪
Wait, I- I forgot what comes after the bridge.
(Electricity fizzing)
(Gasps) Peter the Panda, what are you doing?
(Electricity fizzing)
You're disassembling my Freeze-Inator ray? While—While I was singing about my feelings? You! You're dead to me! You're dead to me!
(Electricity fizzing)

("Go, Go, Phineas" instrumental)
(Equipment clanging and whirring)
Isabella: All right, team, that should do it. Pile in. Okay, let 'er rip!
Gretchen: (Pulls lever)
Isabella: Hold it. I think I know what the problem is. It says "Tie Machine". He left off the "M".
Ginger/Katie: Ohh.

TV Announcer: Today on Dr. Feelbetter, I want to be your nemesis again. And now, Dr. Feelbetter!
Dr. Feelbetter: You ever wonder what would happen if you lost your nemesis? Well, that's what precisely happened to our first guest, Perry the Platypus. Perry the Platypus, share with us your thoughts.
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, I-- I'm sorry, he does—He doesn't actually talk.
Dr. Feelbetter: Ah, I see. And this communication issue is what led you to replace Perry the Platypus?
Doofenshmirtz: No, o-- Of course not! Uh—Peter the Panda doesn't talk either, he—He's a panda bear!
Dr. Feelbetter: I see. Because he's an animal, he doesn't talk.
Doofenshmirtz: Of course not! What kind of an evil scientist are you?
Dr. Feelbetter: Right. Doctor, what if I were to tell you, Peter the Panda is backstage right now.
Doofenshmirtz: What? Peter the Panda is here?
(Crowd oohs)
Perry the Platypus, I-- I had no idea. I--
Dr. Feelbetter: Ladies and Gentlemen, Peter the Panda!
(Crowd boos)
(Cut to 300 million B.C.)
Candace: Ugh! I can't believe I'm just stuck here! I can't believe I'll—I'll never get my driver's license, or—or wear my dream dress to the prom! (Sighs) And most of all, I can't believe I'll never see Jeremy again. (Draws a heart that says "C+J" in the dirt) How long are we supposed to sit here?!
Phineas: (monotone) I don't know. Ferb and I have decided to use this time as an opportunity to practice patience.
Candace: Lovely. Well, I suppose things can't get any worse. (Rain splashing) Oh, look. The world's first bad hair day.
(Dinosaur roaring)
(Thunder crashing)
So, Phineas, where's the rescue party you sent for?
Phineas: Hmm. It just occurred that I may have misspelled "Time Machine" on the plans.
Ferb: Well, I hope that's not going to be an issue.
Phineas: Apparently not.
(The time machine appears, Isabella and the Fireside Girls are on it)
Isabella: Hi, guys. What'cha doooin'?
Phineas: Just waiting for you. (At Candace and Ferb) Hop in, guys.
Candace: We're saved!
Isabella: You know, there's an "M" in "Time Machine".
Phineas: Yeah, sorry. (At Ferb) Take it away, Ferb.
Ferb: (Pulls lever)
(Dinosaur roaring)
Candace: You mean to tell me you built a time machine that has to be plugged in?!
(Dinosaur roaring)
Oh, put a sock in it!
Phineas: Candace, no sudden movements.
Candace: What does it matter? We're all doomed anyway. I mean, where are we supposed to find electricity in DINOSAUR LAND?!
(Lightning zapping)
(They arrive back in the present)
Man: (On P.A) The museum will be closing in 10 minutes.
(Everyone cheering)
Phineas: Yeah! Woo-hoo! That was awesome!
Candace: Boy, that was a close one. Lucky for them I was there or we'd still be to escape that—T-REX!
(Dinosaur roaring)

Dr. Feelbetter: Thank you, Peter. I've been meaning to stack those chairs. (At Doofenshmirtz) Dr. Doofenshmirtz, tell Perry the Platypus how you feel.
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, I'm so sorry I hurt you; When I wasn't actually trying to hurt you. If you give me another chance, I promise to hurt you in the right way. With cartoonish physical violence, and elaborate traps constructed out of strange thing I purchased over the internet. What do you say?
Crowd: Aw.
Dr. Feelbetter: Well, what do you say, Perry the Platypus?
Perry: (Puts on fedora)
Crowd: Aw.
Doofenshmirtz: (Sobs) Thank you, Perry the Platypus. (Sighs) Now, (Laughs maniacally) I can't believe that worked! You know, Peter the Panda thought that he disassembled my Freeze-Inator ray, but that was just a decoy! Bring in the real one, boys! You see, my plan was simple; assemble all the best secret agents in one room, and then turn them all into statues for my giant chess board! (Laughs) Hit it!
Dr. Feelbetter: (flips switch)
Candace: (Screaming) Mom, Dad, don't go in there! There's a live tyrannosaur --
Linda: Ha, she's got your imagination, hon.
(Dinosaur roaring)

(Freeze-Inator whirring)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, Perry the Platypus, you don't mind if I say goodbye to Peter the Panda, do you? I-- I just feel weird how everything happened. Uh, Peter the Panda, I just wanted to let you know that uh, I feel—Ow!
Perry: (Hops out through back of chair; Knocks over Freeze-Inator ray)
(Laser firing; Satellite beeping, Laser hits satellite, zaps dinosaur)

Lawrence: Well, how about we go check out that scary dinosaur?
Candace: No, no! Don't go in there! He's going to eat you, I'm telling you!
Linda: Well, you're right, Candace. It's very lifelike.
Candace: Mwah...!

Doofenshmirtz: Wait! Where's my remote?
Perry: (Knocks chair over, Remote smashes; Seats unlock)
(Frog ribbits, Dog barks, Cat barks, Raccoon punches, Duck throws chair, Chicken clucking)
(Stuff crashing)

Phineas: Hey, Mom. Hey, Dad. There you are, Candace. History is so exciting. We actually went back in time.
Lawrence: I know what exactly what you mean, Phin. These exhibits make the past seem so real.
Phineas: Hey, there you are, Perry.
Candace: (Groans)
Linda: All right, historians. Let's head home.
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. This fossil is my favorite in the museum.
Candace: (Blushes; Laughs)
Jeremy: Huh. That's funny. I never knew cavemen wore safety helmets.

End Credits
Lawrence: Fossils, da da da.
(Tape rewinds)
Fossils, da da da.
(Tape rewinds)
Fossils, da da da.
(Tape rewinds)
Fossils, da da da.
(Tape rewinds)
Fossils, da da da.
(Tape rewinds)
Fossils.
(Dramatic music)



Part I
Linda: So you really don't know what day it is?
Lawrence: I told you, it's Thursday.
Linda: It is more than just another Thursday, Lawrence.
Lawrence:  Then it must be...the day I realized how cute you are when you're angry? (Phineas and Ferb stare at each other)
Linda: I'm going to get my hair done. I'll be back at 2. Maybe you can figure it out before I get home.
Lawrence: Oh, I wonder what all the fuss is about.
Candace: Ahem.
Lawrence: Huh?
Candace: June 15th. It's your wedding anniversary!
Lawrence: Ooh! Egads! Wait, wait! I can fix this!
Phineas: Gee, Candace, isn't this a lot of fuss to make over a date?
Candace: Are you kidding? Anniversaries are very important. Take June, for example. On the 3rd, Jeremy spoke to me for the first time back in the 7th grade. May 6th, he brushed up against me in the hall. Oh, and April 3rd - that's the day he laughed so hard, milk came out of his nose! (laughs) He looked so cute.
Phineas: Hey, Dad, can we help?
Lawrence: Well, I'm afraid not, unless you can perform miracles.
Phineas: What's your budget?
Lawrence: Tell, me boys, what would you get a special woman on her anniversary?
Candace: Oh, please! Asking two boys for romantic advice? Now that's just pathetic. Don't you and Mom have any cherished memories?
Lawrence: Oh, yes. I've got just the thing in here. (begins rummaging around in his toolbox)
Candace: (at Phineas and Ferb, under her breath) He keeps his treasured memories in a toolbox.
Lawrence: Your mother's favorite band. Love Händel.
(Flashback to Linda and Lawrence in the crowd in a huge stadium, looking much younger and wearing very 90's clothing.)
(rock ballad)
Lawrence: (voice over) I bought us tickets to their farewell concert. Oh, we were a handsome, stylish couple back in those days.
Danny: So which lucky couple out there will be caught in our flamin' hot spotlight of love?
(The spotlight hits Linda and Lawrence, who both look surprised.)
Lawrence:  (voice over) I'd never so much as held your mother's hand, but that night, I made my move.
Danny: Well, don't just stand there, man. Kiss her. (Lawrence looks up at Danny, still confused, but Linda kisses him. The crowd cheers.)
Danny: ♪ You snuck your way right into my heart ♪
(End flashback...)
Lawrence: Truly that was an evening I will never, ever forget.
Candace: But you did forget, didn't ya?
Lawrence:  (groans) But Love Händel broke up years ago. Some things can never be recaptured.
Phineas: That's it! I know what we're gonna do today. We're gonna make it their best anniversary ever. Hey, where's Perry?

(Perry enters his lair and puts on his fedora.)
Major Monogram: Ah, there you are, Agent P. We've learned some alarming information. Several suspicious items have been purchased by the Doofenshmirtz Corporation. They include: an industrial-grade air compressor, 20 canisters of helium oxide and 400 pounds of fireworks. Get right on it.
♪ Perry! ♪

(Back at home, the boys are watching a documentary on Love Händel.)
Narrator: (over a rock ballad) For a moment, their ballad, "Snuck Your Way Into My Heart", snuck its way to number one and stayed there for 11 consecutive minutes. But whatever happened to Love Händel? The band was riding high, but tastes were changing, and Love Händel found itself playing smaller and smaller venues. Pressures from a dwindling fan base caused in-fighting among the band members. Lines were drawn. Then lines were crossed. Eventually the lines were erased, and the piece of paper crumpled up and thrown away, and Love Händel was no more. Years later, Love Händel's music continues to warm the hearts of an appreciative public. Bass player Bobbi Fabulous now runs a trendy hair salon, drummer Swampy works quietly at the public library, and only lead singer Danny is still a player in the music industry. (The screen shows a picture of Danny's Music Shop.)
Candace: I've seen that sign. It's down on Main Street.
Phineas: We'll get him to sing for Mom! Ready, team? (holds out his hand)
Candace: Team? Oh, no, I am not getting involved in one of your crazy schemes.
Phineas: Come on, Candace. For true love? (Blinks at her pleadingly)
Candace: Ugh!
(She puts her hand on top of Phineas' anyway.)
Phineas: Candace, you keep Mom away from the house. We'll go get Danny.

(Lawrence is searching for a short notice solution to his anniversary problem in the phone book.)
Lawrence: Ooh. "Love on the Run. Romantic solutions for every occasion."
Phineas: (overlapping) Hey, Dad, we're gonna throw a rock concert in the backyard, okay?
Lawrence: Yes. Well, be careful.
Phineas: Come on, Ferb.

Candace: (cell phone rings) Oh, hey, Stacy. I can't talk right now. My brothers and I are reforming Love Händel for a concert in our backyard.
Stacy: Love Händel? That's my mother's favorite band! (phone beeps) Hey, Mom, did you know Love Händel is reforming?
Dr. Hirano: Love Händel? (expands to numerous people talking) Love Händel? Love Händel? Love Händel?

♪ Doofenshmirtz Abandoned Self Storage! ♪
(Perry's theme is playing, rock-style, until he lands his jetpack and sees what Doofenshmirtz is doing. Rather than something evil, he is hanging a large sign reading "Happy Birthday, Vanessa!" A record needle scratches.)
Doofenshmirtz:  (gasps) Perry the Platypus. Quick, could you hand me that staple gun right over there? Thank you. Ahh... So what do you think? It's for my daughter Vanessa's birthday. I try to throw her a party every year. (He pulls out a roll of pictures, each with an unhappy Vanessa at an excessively girly party.) I know we usually go about our daily battle of good versus evil, but instead, could you maybe help me set up the party for my little girl? Please?
(A montage of Doofenshmirtz and Perry setting up for the party plays to a bouncy song.)

Phineas: Danny's Music Shop. Ferb, this looks like the place.
Danny:  (♪ strumming) No. No. No. No. No. This is a rock-'n'-roll guitar for rock-'n'-roll music.
Customer: Whatever.
Danny: Okay, run. The power of rock too scary for you, I see.
Phineas: Uh, you must be Danny of Love Händel, right?
Danny: Always an honor to be recognized by my fans. Hey, aren't you a little young to be fans of Love Händel?
Phineas: Yes, we are, but our parents aren't. Don't you think you were a little tough on that guy?
Danny: Oh, he'll be back... when the spirit calls him!
Phineas: Wow, you sure are passionate about rock-'n'-roll.
Danny: Well, it's only my life. Sit down, I'll tell you a little story.
(Song: "History of Rock")
(Blues)
♪ When I was a boy, down in South Illinois, ♪
♪ I heard a man playing blues, oh, what a wonderful noise, ♪
♪ He had an old guitar, but not a dollar to his name, ♪
♪ Making music so sad, but he was happy just the same, ♪
♪ He gave me a wink, and said: "Son, let me share the news, ♪
♪ If you want a happy life, you gotta learn to sing the blues!"♪
(50s "Boogie-Woogie")
♪ I asked my daddy for a guitar, ♪
♪ Oh, I begged and I plead, ♪
♪ I said I wanted to play the blues, and he just nodded his head, ♪
♪ Daddy said when he was my age, ♪
♪ "Boogie-Woogie" was the thing, ♪
Phineas: ♪ Just take the blues, throw out your hip, and add a little swing! ♪
Danny: ♪ Ah, music has the power, that without it, he'd a-sworn ♪
♪ That he'd a never met my mom and I'd a-never been born ♪
(Psychedelic guitar solo)
Phineas: So what's this?
Danny: This is Psychedelia. It's where the guitar solo came from.
Phineas: No, I mean what's with all the colors?
(Music suddenly stops)
Danny: I have no idea.
(Funk)
♪ Ha! ♪
♪ I kept learning ♪
♪ All the powers my guitar had ♪
♪ I made it go "walka-walka" ♪
♪ 'Till it was so good it was bad ♪
Phineas: ♪ Just make a face, and stomp that bass, ♪
♪ You can make that rhythm bump ♪
♪ But this is just the blues, but in a way that makes you wanna shake your rump! ♪
Danny: ♪ I can make you clap your hands ♪
(Clap, Clap)
♪ I can make you get up and dance ♪
♪ If you wanna shake your booty, my friend, ♪
♪ You gotta give the funk a chance! ♪
(Metal/Rock)
♪ Metal! ♪
♪ Pound your fist in the air! ♪
♪ Metal! ♪
♪ Bang your head full of hair! ♪
♪ It's crunchy, and it's nasty, full of bad attitude, ♪
Phineas: ♪ Your parents will think you're crazy, your neighbors will think you're rude ♪
Danny: ♪ Believe it or not, it's all the blues again; ♪
♪ You just add a little fuzz and turn your amp up to 10! ♪
♪ Music has the power to change your life, ♪
♪ Forever! ♪
(Guitar solo)
♪ Shuh! ♪
(Applause)
Thank you, thank you.
Phineas: You know, our parents fell in love at one of your concerts.
Danny: See? Music does change lives.
Phineas: Well, how'd you like to sing for our parents' wedding anniversary?
Danny: That'd be righteous, dude, but good luck getting the other guys.
Phineas: Who can resist the power of rock-'n'-roll?
Danny: Love Händel reunion. Rock on, little dudes.
Customer: The spirit of rock'n'roll has called out to me!
Danny: I knew it. That'll be $1,800.

(Back at the Flynn-Fletcher residence, the "Love on the Run" van has pulled up at the curb.)
Lawrence: Oh, thank goodness you're here.
Love On the Run Driver: Love On the Run at your service, my friend. So, what did you forget today?
Lawrence: (inhales) Anniversary.
Love On the Run Driver: Ooh, the big one.
Love On the Run Performer: ♪ It's your anniversary...oh, yeah, your anniversary... ♪
Love On the Run Driver: That's your Love-O-Gram. I'll get the rest of your stuff out of the truck.
(Doofenshmirtz and Perry have just finished decorating for Vanessa's party.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ooh, that was exhausting. Ah. I have one last surprise for our lovely guest. This will be the grand finale of Vanessa's party - the world's largest firecracker! All we need now is a victim to be tied to the rocket so they'll explode up in the sky in a grand display! So, here's the awkward part. Uh... (camera pans over to the firecracker, which Doofenshmirtz has tied Perry to) And when I say "awkward," I mean for you, not so much for me.

(Linda is at the hair salon of - who else? - Bobbi Fabulous.)
Linda: So I wonder what new look Bobbi has envisioned for me this time. You know, he was in my favorite band - Love Händel.
Candace: Love Händel?
Linda: He doesn't like anyone to talk about it, though...
(Candace's phone rings. It's Phineas.)
Linda: ...so don't bring it up.
Candace: Uh, I gotta take this. (whispers) How's it going?
Phineas: We got Danny. Now we're gonna convince Bobbi Fabulous. And if we can't, well, Ferb's got a backup plan.
Candace: Wait. Bobbi Fabulous is Mom's hairdresser. Where are you right now?
Phineas: Walking in the front door of Bobbi's salon-(realizes) Oh.
Candace: You doofuses! Mom's gonna see you and wonder what you're up to!
Phineas: You gotta keep Mom distracted while we talk to Bobbi.
Candace: Say, Mom, maybe we should get you ready for Bobbi.
Linda: Candace, what are you doing?
Candace: You look like you need some conditioner!
Linda: Candace!
Candace: Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up!
Fabiana: Do you have an appointment?
Phineas: Uh, no. We're here to see Bobbi. You know, the bass player from the band Love Händel.
(all gasp) (muffled shouting)
I'm fabulous ♪
Bobbi: Fabiana, who are these little people?
Fabiana: I don't know, sir.
Bobbi: You're a mess. And you... Feudal Europe is so last month.
Phineas: We're trying to get Love Händel back together.
Bobbi: Oh, for heaven's sake, talk to the hand.
Bobbi's Hand: Secretly I'm very lonely.
Phineas: You see, the first time my dad kissed my mom was at a Love Händel concert. And it's their anniversary-
Bobbi: B to the O-R-I-N-G.
Phineas: Not yet, Ferb.
Bobbi: Anyway, you don't need me. I just play bass in the background. Nobody even remembers me.
Phineas: Are you kidding?
(Song:"Fabulous")
Phineas: ♪ I don't need to tell you what you already know, ♪
♪ You're the one with style, you're the whole darn show. ♪
♪ The other guys play their instruments fine, ♪
♪ But next to you, their looks are a crime. ♪
Linda: Candace!
Candace: Hot towel!
Bobbi: ♪ Well, they say true beauty, it comes from within, ♪
♪ But you have to be comfortable in your own skin. ♪
♪ So I exfoliate with this exotic cream, ♪
♪ Just look at me: I look like a dream! ♪
(Camera shutters)
Phineas: You have to admit, he looks pretty darn good.

Linda: Candace, what is going on?
Candace: Dry cycle!
Chorus: ♪ You're the one, yes, you're the star ♪
♪ We need you back on bass guitar ♪
♪ You're fabulous, (I'm fabulous!) ♪
♪ You're fabulous, (I'm fabulous!) ♪
♪ You're the one we all can see, ♪
♪ It's all about you, (It's all about me!) ♪
♪ You're fabulous, (I'm fabulous!) ♪
♪ You're fabulous, (I'm fabulous!) ♪
Bobbi: ♪ You know, no two people are like each other, ♪
♪ So don't be a lookalike copying another, ♪
♪ Unless, of course, you're copying me, ♪
♪ 'Cause that gives you individuality! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Nice 'do! But back to the matter at hand. ♪
♪ So what do you say, are you back in the band? ♪
Bobbi: ♪ Well, maybe if I can find my old leather. ♪
Phineas: ♪ Dude, we're getting the band back together! ♪
Chorus: ♪ You're the one who sets the bar, ♪
♪ The Hairdo King, the Fashion Czar, ♪
♪ You're fabulous (I'm fabulous!) ♪
♪ You're fabulous (Oh, I'm fabulous.) ♪
♪ You're the one we all can see ♪
♪ It's all about you, (It's all about me!) ♪
♪ You're fabulous, (I'm fabulous!) ♪
♪ You're fabulous, (I'm fabulous!) ♪
Ferb: May we take that as a yes?

Part II
(At the Danville Library)
Phineas: (on his phone) Hello? Isabella?
Isabella: Hey, Phineas. What's up?
Phineas: Guess what band's getting back together.
Isabella: Love Händel?
Phineas: Uh, yeah. How'd you know?
Isabella: It was the lead story on the 5:00 news. Let me guess. You guys need a stage, right?
Phineas: Yeah. Can you help us out?
Isabella: We're already on it.
Phineas: Who would have thought that a drummer from a rock-'n'-roll band would end up in a place so quiet? Say, could it be?
Phineas: Pardon me. Would your name be Swampy, ex-drummer for the band Love Händel?
Sherman: That, my friend, was a past life. The name's Sherman. Why you asking?
Phineas: Because they're reforming for one night only. It's a celebration of our parents' anniversary.
Sherman: Well, that sounds charming, boys, but I haven't played drums since the accident. Fell asleep in a metronome factory. When I awoke, I had completely lost my sense of rhythm. I've been hanging out here ever since.
(Song: "Ain't Got Rhythm")
Phineas: ♪ So you're saying that you don't have rhythm ♪
♪ But listen what you're doing right there ♪
♪ With that stamp and a book ♪
♪ You've got a real nice hook ♪
♪ Sounds to me like you've got rhythm to spare ♪
Sherman: ♪ I have no idea what you're talking about ♪
♪ I've got as much rhythm as that chair ♪
♪ What happened to me was a tragedy ♪
♪ But I don't have to be a millionaire ♪
♪ Look, I got a sweet deal going on here ♪
♪ I got all the books that I can read ♪
♪ All these sweet old ladies and this carpet from the 80's ♪
♪ What more could a librarian need? ♪
Woman: Shh!
Sherman: ♪ Besides, I ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ No, I ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ Said I ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ I ain't got rhythm ♪
Phineas: ♪ You're kidding me right, y-you're kidding me ♪
♪ Don't you see what you were doing right then? ♪
♪ That's a wicked groove you were starting to move ♪
♪ Mister, you've got rhythm times ten ♪
Sherman: ♪ I think perhaps that you're not listening ♪
♪ I find it tedious to repeat ♪
♪ It's no big crime, ♪
♪ I just can't keep time ♪
♪ I'm telling you I lost the beat ♪
♪ I don't need my face on t-shirts ♪
♪ Or hit a power-chord guitar ♪
♪ They were screaming my name ♪
♪ I guess it's a shame ♪
♪ But I don't need to be a rock star ♪
♪ Besides, I ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ No, I ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ Said I ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ I ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ I ain't got rhythm ♪
Phineas: ♪ Sounds like rhythm to me ♪
Sherman: ♪ No, I ain't got rhythm ♪
Phineas: ♪ Seems like they all agree ♪
Sherman: ♪ Said I ain't got rhythm ♪
Phineas: ♪ But you're laying down some funky syncopation! ♪
Sherman: ♪ I ain't got rhythm ♪
Phineas: ♪ But you got that beat ♪
Sherman: ♪ No, I ain't got rhythm ♪
Phineas: ♪ Look at them, they're stomping their feet ♪
Sherman: ♪ Said I ain't got rhythm ♪
Phineas: ♪ It's time for you to rock a brand new generation ♪
Library patrons: ♪ Brand new generation ♪
Phineas, Sherman: ♪ Gonna rock a brand new generation ♪
Sherman: ♪ Because I ain't got rhythm! ♪
Woman: Ugh! Would you just go join the band?
Library patrons: ♪ Ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ Ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ Ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ Ain't got rhythm ♪
Sherman: ♪ Hey, I do have rhythm! ♪

(In the women's dressing room at a department store)
Candace: No, that's not it.
Linda: I don't know why you're making me do this, Candace. I mean, when do I ever dress this fancy anyways?
Employee: So how you ladies doing in here?
Candace: Great, but we need to keep looking.
Linda: Oh!
Employee: Well, we certainly have plenty of dresses for you to try on.
Candace: And we have plenty of time.
Linda: (groans) Candace!

(At the Flynn-Fletcher home)
Lawrence: OK, now let's see. "Lead the way for the lovely lady with an elegant wave of your hand. "For you and only you, insert your name here..." Oh, thanks for the light. Hey! No, no, wait! No, no, help me put it out! Do something!
Love On the Run Performer: (groans) Well, that hardly ever happens.
Lawrence: Oh, well, so much for that. I guess it's not a total loss. I mean, this is still presentable, right?
Love On the Run Performer: Eh.
Phineas: Hey, Dad, we're back.
Love On the Run Performer: ♪ So I hear it's your anni-- ♪
Lawrence: Oh, please, please, stop.
Love On the Run Performer: Nobody ever lets me finish my number. That's it. Call me when my ride's here.
Phineas: There's lasagna in the fridge.
Love On the Run Performer: Thank you.
Lawrence: Oh, boys, it's really hopeless.
Phineas: Fear not, Daddy-O. We got you covered. (at Ferb) Hit it, Ferb.
Lawrence: Love Händel?!

(At Doofenshmirtz Abandoned Self Storage)
Doofenshmirtz: Surprise, baby girl! Happy sweet 16th birthday, my little Vanessa!
Vanessa: Oh! Not again!
Doofenshmirtz: Well, come on in, come on in. Check the place out. I decorated it all myself. Well, mostly. Wait till you see this. Wait right there.
Vanessa: Please stop.
Doofenshmirtz: And now, without further adieu, the grand finale!
Vaness: What, a big firecracker?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, no. Perry the Platypus tied to a big firecracker. Together we will launch our nemesis into the sky!
Vanessa: You mean your nemesis!
Doofenshmirtz: I took the liberty of going through your address book and inviting all your little friends, including a nice fella named Johnny. He had hearts by his name. I think I know what that means.
Vanessa: You did what? I don't want them to see this! I'm a teenager. This... this is for a little girl. Don't you know me at all?

(Inside the garage at the Flynn-Fletcher home)
Danny: I have to admit, I never thought I'd wear this stuff again.
Bobbi: (holding up Sherman's old outfit) Ooh, look.
Sherman: Hey sorry, folks. Not gonna happen.
Danny: Dude, is that the cake from the trash?
Sherman: What? You can't let good cake go to waste.
Bobbi: Looks like it all went to waste to me.
Sherman: Watch it, Mr. Tease and Curl.
Bobbi: This is exactly the kind of slovenly behavior that ruined Love Händel.
Sherman: No, it was infighting due to pressure from a dwindling fan base.
Danny: What are you talking about?
Sherman: It was in that special.
Bobbi: You saw that too? Did I look fat? I thought I looked fat.
Danny: That's it. This is ridiculous. I'm out of here.
Phineas: No, wait. You can't go. Mom's not back. What about your fans?
Danny: Phineas, I admire your optimism, but besides your dad, be honest. What fans?
(Garage door opens revealing a crowd of people in the driveway)
Danny: (crowd cheering) Whoa.

(At Doofenshmirtz Abandoned Self Storage)
Doofenshmirtz: She doesn't like the party. I can't believe I failed again. Well, at least I can watch you explode. Hey, that's not fair! Well, then have a taste of my ray gun, Perry the Platypus! Take that! And that! (at Vanessa) Help me, Vanessa! (at Perry) Stay still, you obnoxious - Aah! Perry the Platypus, wait - My hand is stuck in here. Hold on. Hold on. Wait, wait, don't go anywhere.

(At the Flynn-Fletcher home)
Danny: (crowd cheering) Sorry, Phineas, my friend, but we gotta go on now, or we're gonna have a serious fashion metal riot on our hands.
Lawrence: No, no, you can't start without Linda. Oh, what?
Phineas: Look, it's Mom!
Linda: What are all these people doing on our street? Hey! Candace. Honey, what's going on here?
Phineas: Come on, Dad.
Danny: All right, boys, let's blow the roof off this place.
Doofenshmirtz: No! It's going to blow the roof off this place!
Danny: One, two, three, four!
(At Doofenshmirtz Abandoned Self Storage)
Doofenshmirtz: (♪ rock ballad) Aah!
(In the driveway at the Flynn-Fletcher home)
Lawrence: Linda! Linda, darling.
(Song:" You Snuck Your Way Right Into My Heart")
Danny: ♪ I should have known ♪
♪ From how I felt when we were together ♪
Lawrence: Linda, where are you?
Danny: ♪ And even more when we were apart ♪
Linda: Is that Love Händel?!
Danny: ♪ You tiptoed in ♪
♪ And you got under my skin ♪
♪ You snuck your way right into my heart ♪
(At Doofenshmirtz Abandoned Self Storage)
Vanessa: (gasps) Wow.
Johnny: Whoa, this is, like, the coolest-looking party ever. Hey, Vanessa. Did you do all this yourself?
Vanessa: Well, actually, my dad put it together... with some help from Perry the Platypus. (at Perry) Thank you, Perry the Platypus!
(In the driveway at the Flynn-Fletcher home)
Linda: (crowd cheering) Did you do all this for me?
Lawrence: Well, I had a little help.
Phineas: (He and Candace fist bump) Prepare for live feed to screen, and wipe to source.
Danny: ♪ I've put up barriers ♪
♪ To shield my emotions ♪
♪ A wall that you could never break apart ♪
♪ But like a ninja of love ♪
♪ Rappelling down from above ♪
♪ You snuck your way right into my heart! ♪
Love On the Run Performer: ...My heart!
Love On the Run Driver: That's my mom.
Danny: ♪ Oh, yeah ♪
Ferb: Well, don't just stand there. Kiss her!
Lawrence: Happy anniversary, darling. (Candace brings Phineas closer to her)
Danny: (crowd cheering) ♪ Come on, everybody, let me hear ya! ♪
Crowd: Nah Na Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Nah
Danny: Yeah!

(At Doofenshmirtz Abandoned Self Storage)
Johnny: Hey, Vanessa, is that your dad up on the rocket?
Vanessa: He'll be okay. He blows up all the time.
Johnny: Well, he sure did a cool job with this party.
Vanessa: Yeah. Yeah, I guess he did. Thanks, Dad. You finally got one right.

Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Plat-- Wait, is that Love Händel?
(♪ guitar)
Doofenshmirtz: Aaah! (thud)
Danny: Goodnight, Tri-State Area!

End Credits
(Song: "Music Makes Us Better")
♪ If you're feeling lost down in your soul ♪
♪ If you need a little something to make you feel whole ♪
♪ Just remember who you were when you were in control ♪
♪ Just get together with some friends, and play some Rock and Roll! ♪
♪ Music makes us better ♪
♪ Brings us together ♪
♪ And it helps me get back that spirit they stole! ♪
♪ Music makes us better ♪
♪ Brings us together ♪
♪ And I owe my life to Rock and Roll! ♪






 We are doooomed!!
This article covers an essential topic and is in need of major additions and/or work. 
This page should be revised to bring it up to Phineas and Ferb Wiki standards found in the Manual of Style.
(February 24, 2012) 
(Scene opens up showing Camp Phineas and Ferb.)
Grandpa Clyde: (Playing bugle)
Phineas: (Gasping) It sounds like somebody strangling a cat! It must be Grandpa! Wakey wakey, eggs and bakey!
Baljeet: (Coughing) I cannot believe we ate the same food.
Buford: (Burps) Believe it.
Candace: Grandma, would you show me where the shower is?
Grandma Betty Jo: Shower? Why, sure honey. Would you like a massage and a fruity drink too? How about a manicure and a mud facial while you lay by the pool eating crab cakes?
Candace: I can do without the sarcasm.
(Scene switches to the kids finishing their breakfast by the campfire.)
Grandpa Clyde: Chow time's over, campers. Time for our nature walk to Badbeard Lake.
Phineas: Why do they call it Badbeard Lake?
Grandpa Clyde: Well, it's a body of fresh water surrounded by land-
Phineas: No, the Badbeard part.
Grandpa Clyde: Oh, right. It was named after Badbeard, the most ruthless freshwater pirate ever to plunder a lakeside community.
Kids: Cool!
Grandpa Clyde: And in the middle of Badbeard Lake lies Spleen Island, where legend has it Badbeard buried his bountiful booty. Heh!
Phineas: Booty?
Grandpa Clyde: You know, treasure.
Kids: (Gasps) Treasure?
Grandpa Clyde: Aye, mateys- Oh, just a sec. (Marker squeaks) Arrrgh!
Phineas: Why are you talking like a pirate, Grandpa?
Grandpa Clyde: Arrrgh! I'm trying to tell the story of Badbeard the Pirate. There's a song about it. Say, does anyone have a concertina? Buford?
Buford: Me? (Pulls out concertina) Yes.
(Song: The Ballad of Badbeard)
Grandpa Clyde: ♪ Arg, arg, arg, arg, this is the Ballad of Badbeard (X2) ♪
(Birds chirping)
Phineas: That's it?
Grandpa Clyde: Well, I didn't say it was much of a song. So, meet me at the trail head in 5 minutes.
Kids: Aye, aye, Captain Grandpa!
Grandpa Clyde: That's the spirit!
Baljeet: (Stretching out his overalls) Oh, dear. I seem to be missing my underpants.
Buford: (Laughs)
(Scene switches to the kids, Grandpa Clyde, and Grandma Betty Jo on their nature walk.)
Grandpa Clyde: You see kids, wherever you go, the forest is teeming with life for us to step on. Remember, always stick to the trail so you won't get lost. And whatever you do, never touch the orange moss on the right side of a Jum-Jum tree.
Candace: Boring. I'm calling Stacy.
Grandpa Clyde: Left is right. Right is wrong.
Candace: I can't get any reception up here.
Grandpa Clyde: So stay clear of the orange moss. The slightest touch, and the orange moss will absorb through the skin, causing wild hallucinations.
Candace: Huh? Oh no! Was that the right side or the wrong side? No, wait. The left side was the right side. (Gasps) Moss! Orange! (Screams; Runs off)
Grandpa Clyde: Thar she blows mateys. Badbeard Lake.
Kids: Ooh!
Grandpa Clyde: And thar be Spleen Island. The bones of them that hunted the treasure all be lyin' below in Davy Jones's locker.
Phineas: Cool!
Grandpa Clyde: Let's go!
(Song: The Ballad of Badbeard)
All: ♪ Arg, arg, arg, arg, this is the Ballad of Badbeard! Arg, arg... ♪
Grandma Betty Jo: Candace? Where's Candace?
♪ ...This is the Ballad of Badbeard! ♪
(Scene switches to Perry walking in the forest.)
Perry: (Puts on his fedora, takes out a remote, and presses its button, when it doesnt work presses a few more times.)
(Agent E swoops down and carries Agent P to her nest. She puts on her fedora. They both turn thier attention to one of the eggs in the nest)
(Egg cracks)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P, and thank you for your help, Agent E. Sorry to alarm you, Agent P, but we're remodeling our regular base here. Actually, my wife's doing it Mexican-country style. Distressed wood, wrought iron. It should all be very- Woah! Hey, woah! Hey, Agent E, back off! Anyway, Agent E has spotted Dr. Doofenshmirtz on Spleen Island. He's moving boxes and equipment into what's known as the haunted cave of the old sea hag. Honestly, I'm not making this stuff up. But anyway, we believe he's creating a new hideout there, and we want you to foil his plans. Good luck, Agent P.
Candace: (After seeing Perry) No way. This is so weird. I see Perry with an eagle, and their both dressed up like secret agents and they're talking to man inside an egg. (Snickers) That is so messed up. It must be the moss. Hey, wait a minute. How did I get way up here? (Screams, Coughs; Eagle calls)
Now Perry has a wetski? (Gasps) How strange can this get?
Talking Zebra: Oh, it gets much stranger, Kevin.
Candace: (Screams)
(Scene switches to a beach where the kids and Grandpa Clyde are now at.)
Buford: En garde, you scurvy dog!
Baljeet: Ha! I don't even know what scurvy is!
Phineas: Hey! I know what we should do today! Let's be real pirates, and go find Badbeard's treasure.
Grandpa Clyde: (Laughs) Sure, knock yourselves out. I was just about your age when I first heard about Badbeard's treasure. I'd come up here every summer and search for it. But I felt drawn by the excitement and adventure. Of course, then I discovered girls and the rest is a blur. I never found the treasure, but I did find a treasure map.
Buford: Treasure map? Hey!
Baljeet: (Laughs) Woah..!
Grandpa Clyde: But be warned, mateys. They say Badbeard's treasure comes with a curse!
Kids: A curse?
Grandpa Clyde: Aye! Them who disturb the treasure of Badbeard shall be cursed with bad beards for the rest of their days.
Phineas: You mean we'll be stuck with a big ugly beard on our face for the rest of our lives?
Buford: That's gnarly.
Grandpa Clyde: Well, while you kids search for treasure, I better go search for Grandma. Wish there was a map for that.
(Scene switches to Candace)
(Men vocalizing)
Candace: (Screaming)
(Scene switches to the beach)
Phineas: Okay, troops. We set sail from Point Plots, sail through the Stones of Gall, and into the Cove of Incontinence, and then continue on foot into the Dark Tunnel of Doom. Well, that sounds delightful. And "X" marks the spot. Easy-peasy. First thing we gotta do is, we make Grandpa's secondhand dingy into a first-rate pirate ship. Ferb, any ideas?
Ferb: (Takes out small piece of folded paper, unfolds it into a giant blueprint)
Phineas: Woah. Impressive.
(Scene switches to Perry driving the jet-ski into a cave)
(Engine revving)
Candace: Hehhehheh, hehheh, ee-ee-ee-ee, hahahaheeheehee.
Doofenshmirtz: Is that the cable company? So, Mr. Cable Man, you don't carry the Evil Science Channel? What's up with—Perry the Platypus? Oh, give me a break! I-I'm moving, legally. I bought this place, and cheap too. It's supposed to be haunted by a terrifying old sea hag. (Laughs) Look, Perry the Platypus, just because I'm evil doesn't mean everything I do is evil.
(Camera pans to Perry, then Doofenshmirtz, back to Perry, then back to Doofenshmirtz])'
Fine! You want evil, Perry the Platypus? I'll give you evil!

(Song: The Ballad of Badbeard)
Phineas: Avast, me 'arties!
♪ We're sailing for the Island of Spleen to search for the treasure of Badbeard ♪
Holly: I'm feeling sick.
Gretchen: You're looking green.
All: ♪ We search for the treasure of Badbeard ♪
Buford: ♪ We'll plunder and pillage ♪
Baljeet: ♪ And do some math ♪
Ferb: ♪ And all refuse to take a bath ♪
Isabella: ♪ We seek adventure and romance ♪
Baljeet: ♪ I'm running out of underpants ♪
All but Ferb: ♪ There's ghosts who haunt the cave and worse ♪
Skull: ♪ It's guarded by a pirate's curse ♪
Candace: ♪ Why do my nostrils whisper to me? ♪
Ferb: (Rings bell)
All: ♪ Arg, arg, arg, arg, this is the Ballad of Badbeard (X2) ♪
(Scene switches to the kids entering the Tunnel of Doom.)
Phineas: This is it. The Tunnel of Doom. Just like on the map.
(Bird chirps)
Isabella: Are you sure we're going the right way?
Phineas: Sure I'm sure. We just follow Ferb. He's got the map.
(Wind blows map)
Phineas: Uh oh. Oh well, I'm pretty sure it's straight forward from here. Heh, heh.
Isabella: It doesn't look very safe.
Buford: I think you better test it.
Phineas: No problem. It'll hold us.
(Bridge creaks)
No, wait! Not all at once!
All: (Screaming)
(Monster roaring)
Phineas: Run for it!
Isabella: Oh my gosh! Buford, what are you doing?
Buford: Look! I found these nifty hand puppets!
Isabella: Well stop fooling around and let's go.
Buford: Oh, all right.
Baljeet: This place is creeping me out. If I had any underpants, I am sure they would have been soiled.
Isabella: Phineas, we're not getting lost, are we?
Buford: Yeah, Dinner Bell. What if there is no treasure?
Baljeet: Perhaps the real treasure is true friendship and the spirit of adventure.
Phineas: Nah, there it is over there. "X" marks the spot.
Isabella: Look. There's the chest.
Baljeet: But who d-dare open it?
Phineas: I'll open it.
Isabella: But Phineas, what about the curse?
Buford: Bad beards forever, dude.
Baljeet: You don't even have a chin.
Phineas: That's a chance I'll have to take. Shiver me timbers! The curse is true! We will have bad beards forever!
Isabella/Baljeet/Buford: Oh no!
Phineas: It's full of bad fake beards.
(Scene switches to the cave)
Doofenshmirtz: Now, Perry the Platypus, why don't you say hello to my new pet crocodiles? Susan and Susan. I named them after each other. Now, prepare to be delicious!
Candace: (Laughing maniacally)
Doofenshmirtz: (Gasps) The sea hag!
Candace: The pharmacist!
(Perry jumps out of the trap)
Hey Perry, I'm gonna get a snack from the vending machine. You want something? Suit yourself. I'm gonna have me some beef jerky! (Presses button)
Computer Voice: Island Self Destruct Sequence activated.
Candace: (Alarm beeping) Wait, my beef jerky!
Doofenshmirtz: AAH! Someone always finds my self-destruct button! (Sighs) Curse you, Perry the Platypus, blah blah blah.
(Scene switches to the kids)
Phineas: These are the best bad beards ever!
(Rumbling)
Quick, grab as many beards as you can carry and let's get out of here!
(Rumbling continues, Rock music)
(Monster roaring, Crashes through tunnel)
Cast off. Put your backs into it, mateys.
(Scene switches to Perry and Candace running out of the cave)
Candace: WEE!
Agent E: (Grabs Perry and Candace; Drops them at the ship)
(Kids clamoring)
Phineas: By the way, where's Per- Oh, never mind.
Candace: Perry, what happened to your cute little secret agent hat?
Phineas: Well Ferb, me ol' matey, our first time out as pirates, and we come home with a bounty of beards.
Ferb: And perhaps the greatest pirate story ever told.
(Scene switches to a close-up of Grandpa Clyde)
Grandpa Clyde: Wow, that's the greatest pirate story ever told!
Grandma Betty Jo: Oh. How are you feeling, honey?
Candace: Oh, better. Thanks, Grandma. Can you believe I actually thought Perry was a secret agent?
(Perry chatters)
Well, I learned my lesson. Stay away from the orange moss.
Grandma Betty Jo: The orange moss? Is that what your Grandpa said? Oh, he always gets that wrong. It's the blue moss you gotta watch out for.
Candace: W-what?
Grandma Betty Jo: I guess it was all in your head. Well, that's the power of suggestion for you. You get some rest now, sweetie.
Candace: The blue moss. What? Ohh.
Talking Zebra: (Appears out of no where, knitting) Love the beard, Kevin.

End Credits
(Song: The Ballad of Badbeard)
Phineas: Avast, me 'arties!
♪ We're sailing for the Island of Spleen to search for the treasure of Badbeard ♪
Holly: I'm feeling sick.
Gretchen: You're looking green.
All: ♪ We search for the treasure of Badbeard ♪
Buford: ♪ We'll plunder and pillage ♪
Baljeet: ♪ And do some math ♪
Ferb: ♪ And all refuse to take a bath ♪
Isabella: ♪ We seek adventure and romance ♪
Baljeet: ♪ I'm running out of underpants ♪
All but Ferb: ♪ There's ghosts who haunt the cave and worse ♪
Skull: ♪ It's guarded by a pirate's curse ♪
Ferb: (Rings bell)
All: ♪ Arg, arg, arg, arg, this is the ballad of Badbeard (X2) ♪
Buford: Bad beards forever, dude.



(Scene opens up showing the Danville Museum.)
Candace: I can't believe you guys dragged me all the way over here for this. (Sighs) Well, at least there's hunky guys in skirts.
Lawrence: Guys, come and look at this. This is an actual replica of an artist's interpretation of what some random guy of no significance believed that the chariot of Asparagus might have looked like. And this is Asparagus, the greatest warrior in all of Greece. With this golden chariot, he would win every race. And here he is defeating the Minotaur, a creature that's half-man, half-bull. Asparagus defeated him using the head of Medusa, a creature so ugly she could turn people to stone with just one look.
Phineas: Kind of reminds me of Candace.
Candace: It does not look like me!
Phineas: I know what we're gonna do today. We're gonna have our own chariot race like... Hey, where's Perry?

Major Monogram: (Disguised as Discobolos) Psst. Psst! Agent P, over here. Sorry to disturb you at the museum. We've just been informed that Doofenshmirtz has created a machine to rid the world of platypuses. ...Uh, platypi? Platypeople? Whatever. We've tracked Doofenshmirtz to the old abandoned movie house. So get going, and don't look up my skirt.

(In the driveway at the Flynn-Fletcher house...)
Phineas: Okay, the race will start here at home, through the streets of Danville, and over to the park. From there we make our way past Paul Bunyan's Pancake Haus...
(Song: Paul Bunyan's Pancake Haus)
♪ Paul Bunyan's, where food is good ♪
Announcer 2: (Canadian accent) But not too good, eh?
Phineas: ...and finish at the steps of the museum.
Lawrence: Hey, boys, whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Just mapping out our route for the big chariot race we're gonna have.
Lawrence: Oh, excellent. It's good to see you boys taking an interest in Greek mythology. I'm doing the same. I've got over 12 hours of gladiator movies here I wanna watch.
Isabella: Nice hat, Mr. Flynn.
Lawrence: Thank you, Isabella. It's my movie watching hat.
Phineas: Isabella, we're gonna have the greatest race in history, complete with helmets and armor and super-cool chariots with horses. Spread the word! (Isabella runs off) Spread the word!
Isabella: (runs back) Wait! At what time?
Phineas: In about an hour or so.
Isabella: (runs off again but runs back once more) Where's it gonna be?
Phineas: Here!
Isabella: (runs off but runs back a final time) Who am I telling again?
Phineas: Just spread the word! (Isabella finally leaves) Oh, and tell them to bring gladiator gear.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Abandoned Theater! ♪
(Jingle of Gitchee Gitchee Goo playing in the background)
Doofenshmirtz: Comfy, Perry the Platypus? I've prepared something special just for you. You see, until now, every attempt to eradicate you has been foiled. Then I came across a...
(Slurping)
Doofenshmirtz: Excuse me, who are you and what are you doing here?
Male teen: I bought a ticket to see this movie.
Doofenshmirtz: (Groans) Okay, just roll the film.
Male narrator: Who is the enemy of the platypuses? Or platypi or platypeople? Or... Well, you know what I mean. The platypus is one of our greatest friends in nature, a humble but key component in Mother Nature's delicate cycle of life. But as of late, worldwide populations have been declining to near endangerment. But why? Who is the enemy of the platypuses or... Well, you know what I mean.
Male teen: This is the best platypus movie I have ever seen.
(Slurping)
Male narrator: Historically, the enemies of the platypus were well known: the poisonous swamp viper, the snaggle-tooth badger, and duplicating imitable stunts seen on television. But there is a new enemy of the platypus, one whose tireless development paves over the platypus's woodland homes: The greatest enemy of the platypus...is man.
Cheerful male voice: Hi, there.
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, you see, Perry the Platypus? For years I've been trying to rid myself of you with traps and bombs and poisonous gas and automatic tennis ball machines. I--I don't even know what I was thinking back then, but now I have the ultimate platypus elimination weapon. Perry the Platypus, recoil in horror at my new creation! A giant...killer...robot...man.
Giant Robot Man: My name is Norm. The enemy of the platypus is man.
Doofenshmirtz: Whoa-ho-ho-ho-ho!
Male teen: This is awesome! I did not know this movie was in 3-D.
Norm: Please, stop running. Perhaps we could discuss our differences over coffee.

(In the backyard...)
Phineas: Okay, we're all set! Let's meet our racers. In the first chariot is us. Then we got Isabella and the Fireside Girls, Buford and Baljeet, and we have one for Candace, too, if she ever shows up. Here are the maps for everyone. The first chariot to reach the museum wins. Any questions?
Baljeet: Yes. Should we not establish the rules first?
Buford: This is a chariot race. There are no rules.
Isabella: No rules? Well, if those are the rules!
Buford: Hey, you, you're goin' down!
Baljeet: But we're on the same team.
Buford: Then you're goin' down with me!
Phineas: Each chariot will be pulled by a rocking horse Ferb souped up with a lawnmower engine!
Candace: Phineas! Just what do you think you're doing?
Phineas: Candace, great! You're right on time! Check out this cool-lookin' helmet we made for you! And we built you your own chariot that looks just like you!
Candace: Oh, that's ridiculous. I do not have wheels!
(In the living room...)
Actor: To the winner of this race, I offer the spoils of the empire…
Candace: Dad, they're racing chariots.
Lawrence: That scene's just starting. Come in and sit down.
Phineas: (calling from outside) Come on, Candace!
Candace: Dad!
Lawrence: Oh, I'm sorry. Do you want some?
Candace: (Groans in frustration) That's it! I'll stop this myself.
(Outside; the back yard...)
Django: Are you ready? Get set...go!
(Engines revving)
Candace: Okay, you two, I've had enough of this-- Ow! Hey! (Engine revving) Aah! Daddy!
Lawrence: Oh, now where'd she go? She's gonna miss all the action.

Candace: (Screaming)
Phineas: Looks like Candace made it after all. Lookin' good, Candace!
Candace: (Screams)
(Song: My Chariot)
♪ I got a motorized nag takin' me for a drag ♪
♪ Leave the others far behind ♪
♪ Baby, I ain't braggin', my anachronistic wagon's ♪
♪ Two millennia ahead of its time ♪
♪ Talkin' 'bout my chariot ♪
♪ No, it's not street legal, but it gets me where I wanna go ♪
Candace: (Screams)
♪ Climb aboard my chariot ♪
♪ When they hear me come a-rumblin', then everybody wants to know ♪
♪ "Where'd you get that chariot?" ♪
♪ I don't need no oracle to tell me how good it feels ♪
♪ To throw a full-tilt coliseum killer toga party on wheels ♪
Candace: (Screams)
♪ Yeah, yeah ♪
Phineas: Remind me, why did we put spikes on Buford's chariot?
Buford: Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!
Candace: Reckless endangerment, disrupting traffic... EW, they are so busted.
Phineas: And a bowling ball catapult? I mean, what were we thinking?
Candace: (screams) My phone!
Phineas: Why'd we give them all the cool stuff? What do we have? Cup holders? Sweet. Now we're cookin'.
Baljeet: The girls are still gaining! Failure is not an option for me, my husky friend.
Buford: Use your head and think of something, genius!
Baljeet: Exactly! Use my head! ... That is right! Eat sparks, my opponents!
Phineas: Ferb, do you smell something burning?
Baljeet: An unconventional way to use my head, yes, but an effective one!

Norm: We should do this more often!

Isabella: Okay, girls, star formation!
♪ ...Yeah ♪
Candace: (Screams)
Isabella: Sorry. No rules.
Baljeet: Now what?
Buford: Have to use your head again.
Baljeet: (Screams)
Candace: (Screams)
Buford: Hey, get back on your own chariot!
♪ Yeah, talking 'bout my chariot ♪
♪ Got all my horse power ♪
♪ In two big wheels of fun ♪
♪ Climb aboard my chariot ♪
♪ You can be my second ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm gladiator number one ♪
♪ Get a load of my chariot ♪
♪ Always going full-throttle ♪
♪ Ask anybody and they'll say ♪
♪ If you see me coming ♪
♪ Then you better get out of my way! ♪
Phineas: We should be coming up on Paul Bunyan’s!
(Song: Paul Bunyan's Pancake Haus)
♪ Paul Bunyan's, where food is good ♪
Announcer 2: But not too good, eh?
Phineas: Oh, there it is!

Norm: Are those slacks new? They make you look slimmer. Honey, have you seen my keys?

Candace: (Screams)
♪ Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah ♪
Phineas: Look, it's Perry. I gotcha! (Pets Perry) Where you been? (Crash) What is that? It's half-man, half-bull. It's the Minotaur!
Norm: My name is Norm!
Phineas: It's Norm the Minotaur! Hit it, Ferb!
Norm: Wait! Come back! You can borrow my rake.

Candace: (Screaming)
Phineas: Candace has the lead! Go Candace!
Candace: Somebody help me!
Phineas: See? I knew she'd love it.

Norm: Let's invite our wives next time.
(At the Danville Museum...)
(Grunting)
Django: Candace wins!
Candace: (Screams)
(Crash!)
Phineas: That was the coolest rocking-horse, mower-pulled chariot Minotaur chase ever!
Candace: Oh... Ohh, uhh... Gross.
Kids: Phin-e-as and Ferb! Phin-e-as and Ferb!
(Chant continues)
Candace: Oh, no! No, no, no, no, no! You can't tear up the town with your chariots and expect to get away with it! When Mom and Dad find out about this...
Phineas: Candace...
Norm: The enemy of the platypus is man.
Candace: Listen, pal, you stay out of this!
Kid #1: She turned him to stone!
Candace: I did what?
Kid #2: Don't look at me!
Candace: Wait!
Kid #3: It's Medusa!
Candace: D'oh, that's it! I'm outta here!
Phineas: Wait, Candace!

Doofenshmirtz: Norm! Oh, no, Norm! What did he do to you? Did the bad little platypus switch you off? I'll fix that.
Norm: My name is Norm.
Doofenshmirtz: See? All you needed was a reboot. …Wait! What is this? What happened to all the lights? Wait, it's coming loose. I think I can get it off.
Norm: The enemy of the platypus is man.
Doofenshmirtz: Ooh. Oh, well, now it's stuck. (screams) Somebody help me!
Norm: Secretly, I'm very lonely.

Candace: Just wait until Mom finds out about this.
Phineas: Candace, looks like we owe you a big thanks for defeating the Minotaur. Who knew you had the power to turn men to stone?
Candace: That is so not true. Who ever heard of something as silly as turning someone to stone...? No, no, it can't be. (Screams) I did it again. Don't look at me! (Screams) I'm a monster! (Screams) Make it stop! (Screams)
Phineas: It's okay, Ferb. She's gone. You can look now.
Ferb: No. Not taking any chances.
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: Hey, look, there's Perry.
Ferb: Still not looking.



(Opens on a close-up of Candace's screaming mouth.)
Candace: MOOOOOOOOOOOM!!! Look! Look, look! In the backyard! Look! They've done it again!
Linda: Just let me drop off the groceries.
(♪ carnival)
(Zoom out, we see a giant Ferris wheel that the boys built.)
Isabella: This was the best ride ever, guys.
Astronaut: (Russian accent) Ohh, that was very fabulous ride. Now can you send us back to space station perhaps?
Alien: Erimnevop Yelsgnik Nad.
(A ray from nowhere hits the ferris wheel, causing it to roll away.)
Candace: (With her eyes closed) Look, look, look! OK, tell me you don't see a giant, enormous Ferris wheel in the backyard!
Linda: (flatly) All right, I don't see a giant, enormous Ferris wheel in the backyard.
(Horror music; Candace goes over to see that the Ferris wheel disappeared.)
Phineas: Hi, Mom.
Linda: Hi, kids.
Candace: "Why don't you come in for snacks?"
Linda: Why don't you come in for some snacks?
Candace: "Oh, there you are, Perry."
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
Candace: And Ferb says...
Ferb: You know, gladiators were Roman, not Greek.
Candace: (sighs) It's always the same thing every day.
(Cuts to the kitchen where Phineas and Ferb are eating apples.)
Candace (cont'd): The same insane routine.
(Cuts to the living room, Candace stomps through.)
(Song: "Paul Bunyan's Pancake Haus (jingle)" (instrumental))
Candace (cont'd): My life is like a bad sitcom.
Man on TV: Do you live in the Danville area and want to bust your brothers? (Candace zips back over.) Then call now and you can be on the next episode of Bust 'Em!
Candace: Yes, yes!
(Song: "Leave the Busting to Us!")
♪ When you're bothered by your brothers and you can't convince your mother ♪
♪ And you don't think you can take another day ♪
♪ Don't swear or cuss 'cause they got your back against the wall ♪
♪ And you think you've tried it all, there's a number you should call ♪
♪ To throw them underneath a bus ♪
♪ Just leave the busting to us ♪
Bust 'em! Bust 'em! Bust 'em!
(Operators are standing by.)
Candace: (dials phone) Hello, Bust 'Em? Do I have a show for you.
(Cuts to outside the Flynn-Fletcher house, it is the next morning.)
Phineas: Bright, sunny and clear. Yep, it's gonna be a hot one. Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today.
Linda: Well, I'm off to my cooking class. You kids keep cool today.
Phineas: Oh, good. Our stuff is here.
Candace: Already?
(The Bust 'Em truck arrives in the background)
Candace: Yeah, well... OK, OK. You guys keep doing whatever it is you guys do.
Phineas: That seemed oddly out of character. Hey, where's Perry?

♪ Perry! ♪
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. It's a beautiful day in the Tri-State area, just the kind of day that makes Dr. Doofenshmirtz a little verklempt. That's why your mission is...Sky... Weather... Rain... Doofenshmirtz. Uh, we're breaking up. Let me call you on a land line. (telephone rings) So, just to recap: sky, weather, rain, Doofenshmirtz.
(At the Bust 'Em truck...)
Woman: (whispering) Are you Candace?
Candace: Yes.
Woman: (whispering) Get in. We're from the TV show. (cuts to inside the truck, normal voice) My name is Lulu Jones, and this is my assistant, Fifi.
Fifi: Hi there.
Candace: So you really think you can bust my brothers?
Lulu: Ha-ha-ha. You're so cute. Isn't she cute, Fifi?
Fifi: Oh, yes, she is. Ha-ha-ha!
Lulu: You see, Candace, busting is my middle name. It's my actual middle name. Lulu "Busting" Jones. I was born for this job.
Candace: But you have no idea what my brothers are capable of.
Lulu: Believe me, I know. That's why I created this show. My brothers used to drive me crazy. Let me tell you a story. (She shows her fists, one reading "bust", the other reading "them".) The story of "bust" and "them." (She pretends her fists are fighting.) "Bust" fights "them", but "them" fights right back. It's the age-old struggle, but in the end "them" always wins. No, I'm sorry. Wait, "bust" - ha-ha – "Bust" always wins. That's it. Yes, bust them. Ha-ha! The point is, I feel your pain. Mom never believed they were the ones breaking the plates or scratching the records.
Candace: Um, uh, my brothers don't break plates or scratch records.
Lulu: Well, whatever they're doing, we'll get them. Our crew has planted cameras covering every square inch of your backyard. Basically, if a squirrel breaks wind, we'll have it on tape. Fifi, none of these cameras seem to be working.
Fifi: Actually, I think camera number eight is working fine.
Squirrel: (breaks wind)
Candace: So, your show must be pretty popular, huh?
Lulu: Well, you know, not really. We're having some problems with our ratings right now. Our station manager is threatening to pull the plug, but with an episode like this one, it'll never happen! Come on, gimme one!
Candace: One what?
Lulu: A "Bust 'em!" Gimme a "Bust 'em." Come on!
Both: (Fist bumping in time) ♪ Bust 'em! Bust 'em! Bust 'em! ♪
Candace: Well, you know, they must be done by now anyway.
Lulu: Done with what?
Candace: I don't know. It's different every day. Come on, I'll show you.
(Cuts to Candace and Lulu in the backyard; the latter has her mouth dropped open, the former looking uneasy.)
Fifi: So where is this thing I'm supposed to film?
(Candace points upward; Fifi faints.)
Candace: So, what do you think?
(Pan upwards revealing the water slide.)
Lulu: I think we finally have our (voice squeaks) very special episode!
Phineas: Hey, Candace, what do you think of the water slide?
(Cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
(Perry swings in and hits a "window" with Doofenshmirtz in it. Doofenshmirtz peeks out the other window.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha-ha! Oh-ho, Perry the Platypus. (crash) I can't believe you fell for that old fake window trick. Ha-ha-ha. Whoo! (crash) Wait a second, how did you...? (gasps) Oh, I can't believe I fell for the old fake Perry the Platypus bit. That was pretty good, Perry the Platypus. I gotta give you props on that one. I know, I know. You're wondering about the hat, right? It's part of my new magic kit. Ever since the seventh grade, I have wanted to be a magician. But it was a pretty tough road.
(Flashback)
Young Doofenshmirtz: Hey, wait! Where-Where's Bobo the rabbit?
(audience laughs)
(grunts)
Young Doofenshmirtz: Can somebody please get me out of this? Anyone? Hello?
(Flashback ends)
Doofenshmirtz: But I guess my dreams faded into sepia tone somewhere along the way. Oh, Perry the Platypus, your shoes are untied. ... Psyche! Before you go, I'd like to introduce you to the Gloominator 3000... inator! (rattle) Hmm? What's that? Could it be Morse code for "That evil gadget looks so manly and threatening. What on Earth does it do?" All right, I'll tell you. Sheesh! Stop bugging me! With this, I will launch thousands of weather pellets into the atmosphere, thereby plunging the Tri-State Area into a new ice age! (dramatic music) But before I do that, I shall finally make Perry the Platypus disappear! Voila! Ha-ha. It really worked! Maybe I should have stuck with the magic business, hmm?

Phineas: Hey, Candace, wanna join our maiden voyage?
Candace: I'm not gonna be a guinea pig for one of your harebrained...
Lulu: Candace, wait! (She places a bike helmet with a camera on Candace's head.) We need you to get on that ride with this secret hidden camera. Now go get that footage and leave the busting to us!
Phineas: Everybody ready? Make sure your life vests are securely fastened. In case we capsize, your seat cushions can function as a headstone. (removes Candace’s helmet) Oh, you don't want to get this wet.
Candace: But-But-But-But –
Phineas: Come on, Candace, that wasn't too bad, was it?
Candace: Actually, that was kinda...
(all scream)
(gasps)
Candace: That's it. It's over, right?
(laughing)
(Song: "Gotta Make Summer Last")
♪ Summer, I love summer ♪
♪ We like summertime ♪
(screaming)
Whoa!
♪ Summer... ♪
Whoa! Whoo!
Whew! Aah!
♪ Gotta think summer now ♪
Candace: Aah!
Phineas: You wanna go again?
Candace: Are you crazy?!
Lulu: Oh, she'd love to! Ha-ha. (at Candace) We need that footage if you wanna bust 'em. (She gives her a cowboy hat with a camera sticking out of it.) We disguised the camera this time. Don't lose it.
All: Whoa!
(screaming)

Doofenshmirtz: Ah-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! Now let's test my Gloominator 3000-inator! A couple of these ought to be enough. Let's see. Whoo-hoo! Look at them go! .... Perfect! Now for the real thing. .... Hmm. Maybe I can squeeze a few more in there. Lemme see. Perry the Platypus? Bobo the rabbit! Do you know that I've been looking for you since the seventh grade? (top hat cocking) Aah!
(Cuts to a farmer and his wife at a vacant bunny farm.)
Farmer's Wife: I can't believe you spent our entire life savings on a bunny farm and forgot to buy any bunnies!
Farmer: But, dear, I...
Farmer’s Wife: I mean, what did ya think - rabbits were just gonna fall outta the sky?
(The bunnies fall down everywhere.)
Farmer: Looks like somebody owes me an apology.
Farmer's Wife: Touché.
(Cut back to the Bust 'Em truck.)
Candace: So, Lulu, did we get enough footage?
Lulu: Did we ever! (Brief shot of the TV monitors showing the footage.) Now we need you to call your mom for the big confrontation scene, and I'll call the station manager.
Candace: Hi, Mom.
Linda: Hi, Candace. What took you so long?
Candace: Just get over here as soon as you can. This time, it's gonna be different.
Lulu: Sir, you should come over here right away. This will be our best show ever, I guarantee it!

Kid 1: Hey, that evil scientist just stole my bike!
Kid 2: Hey, that nice duck just gave me 20 bucks for my skateboard.
(Cut back to the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Lulu: Ooh! This is great! I can smell that second season pickup. .... What was that?
Candace: (gasps) My mom is here.
Lulu: My station manager is here.
Linda: Candace, what's going on? Who are these people? Could you please...
Candace: Mom, Mom, we're gonna be on TV. I can finally prove everything.
Lulu: I'm talking about ratings dynamite here, sir. (With her eyes closed) Tell me that's not ratings dynamite!
(horror sting)
Station Manager: That's not ratings dynamite, that's a suburban backyard.
Lulu: (sputtering) But I had no idea... What? I don't understand... What?! Where is everything?!!
Candace: Welcome to my world.
Lulu: Wait a minute, wait a minute! The video tapes! All the proof is still in the van! Come on, gimme a "bust 'em"!
Both: (Fist bumping in time) Bust 'em! Bust 'em! Bust 'em!
Station Manager: You get that a lot?
Linda: Pretty much every day around here.
(Cuts to the front yard.)
Lulu: It’s in the van, it's in the van, it's in the van, it's in the van!
Station Manager: I don't think I can take this everyday.
Linda: You get used to it.
Lulu: The van... (Reveal the van is gone.) Where is the vaaaaaan?!
(Cuts to the Bust 'Em ban being driven by Doofenshmirtz.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! So nice of them to leave the keys inside.... That's what you get for being the good guy. You have to stop at all the traffic signals. (laughs) Uh... Oh, no! What.... What is this? Curse you, Perry the Platypus!
(Cut back to the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Linda: So, kids. Keeping cool today?
Candace: "Hi, Mom."
Phineas: Hi, Mom!
Candace: "Oh, there you are, Perry."
Phineas: Oh, there you, Perry.
Candace: And Ferb says...
Ferb: And that's why I never wear suspenders in public.
Candace: "Now for some snacks."
Linda: Why do you kids come inside for some pie?
Candace: Yeah, I'll take some pie.
(Cuts to Candace and Lulu sitting on the doorstep, holding plates of pie.
Candace: Now you can understand my pain. Want some pie?

End Credits
Doofenshmirtz: I'm getting dizzy! Oh! Maybe I'm supposed to turn into a skid. Whoa!
Farmer's Wife: I can't believe you sold our lucrative bunny farm and bought a van rental place! And you didn't buy a single van! (Hears the van falling over her) Not one word.
BAM!



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher House with Lawrence practicing a speech to Phineas, Ferb, Betty Jo Flynn, and Clyde Flynn)
Lawrence: And that is why the 18th century sewing thimble was not only a slice of history, but a compelling example of American grit and perseverance. Hmm? Hmm? Hmm? Yes?
Phineas: Great, Dad.
Betty Jo: Oh, that was wonderf... (She fake snores)
Linda: Mom!
Betty Jo: Oh, I'm kidding! Hon, your speech is gonna be a big hit at the antique thimble symposium.
Lawrence: It's gonna knock 'em dead.
Linda: Uh, which we're gonna be late for if we don't get on the road! Thanks again for looking after the kids today. Candace is skating at the park, all numbers are on the fridge.
Lawrence: Be good for your grandparents, boys!
Phineas: Bye!
(Door slams)
Grandma Betty Jo: You wanna go down and embarrass your sister at the park?
Phineas and Clyde: Yeah.
(Everyone dashes off)
(Cut to the park)
Stacy: You got it, Candace! You may be rusty, but you got it!
Candace: Uh, I can't turn around...or stop, but I got it! I wonder if Jeremy's skating here today. Does this helmet make my butt look big?
Phineas: See? I told you Ferb was a good skater.
Betty Jo: Ooh, that's my boy!
Stacy: Hey, isn't that your family?
Clyde: Yoo-hoo!
Betty Jo: Hello!
Phineas: Hey, Candace! Jump in!
Candace: I am so not with them! Turn me around, Stacy!
Phineas: So, Grandma, where did you get the moves?
Betty Jo: Well, boys, I was quite the skater in my– (She skates into someone) Oof! Watch where you're--
Woman: (Gasps) Betty Jo? Of the Tri-State Bombers?
Betty Jo: Hildegard? Of the Saskatoon Slashers?
Hildegard: I thought I smelled the last of you back in '57, when I whipped your sorry behind, took the trophy and became the rightful Queen of the Derby!
Phineas: Whoa, Grandma, you were in the rollerskating derby?
Betty Jo: Not only was I in it, I was champ! It was years ago.
(Flashback)
Betty Jo: (Narrating) The night of the final match between the Bombers and the Slashers. We were on our final lap. What was left of my team used our signature move "The Whip" to send me to the finish line. Hildegard's team had the same idea. The trophy was mine until...
(the young Hildegard punches Betty Jo, and crosses the finish line first)
(Flashback ends)
Betty Jo: You only won because you cheated!
Hildegard: "Anything goes", remember?
Betty Jo: Well, what do you say we try it again, cheater?
Hildegard: Anytime, anywhere.
Betty Jo: You skate like a water buffalo!
Hildegard: (in background) You couldn't win a race against a one-legged stuffed owl. 
Betty Jo: (in background) Take your teeth out or I will do it for you! 
Candace: Hi, Jeremy.
Jeremy: Uh, Candace? Why is my grandma yelling at your grandma?
Candace: That's your grandmother?
Hildegard: Come on, Jeremy. You and your little sister are on my team. Suzy!
Suzy: Yes, Grandma?
Hildegard: Me, you and Jeremy are a team. Got it?
Betty Jo: So I need two of you kids on my team, okay?
Candace: Well, you can have Phineas and Ferb, Grandma. I'm not–
Suzy: But it's not fair, Candace. Our team has two girls and one boy, so you need to be on your grandma's team so it's fair. Cause it's not fair if it's two boys and one girl against two girls and one boy, so you have to skate, Candace, or else it won't be fair.
Phineas: Then it's you, Ferb, and Grandma! You'll make a great team!
Candace: B-But–
Jeremy: I guess it's set, then. We gotta do it for our grandmas. Right, Candace?
Candace: Yeah, (She chuckles) right.
Suzy: Psst. See ya on the track, chump!
Candace: Yeah, great. Hey, wait! There's nowhere to have a rollerskating derby, remember? The old derby track got torn down and turned into a tattoo parlor!
Phineas: Leave the rink to us!
(Perry put himself into a box, which the mailman picks up, and after some processing, and two plane trips, the box is placed in a mail chute, and arrives at Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Hmm. Uh, nice entrance, Agent P. But you do realize there's an elevator over there, right? Okay, just pointing it out. Doofenshmirtz is up to something. I want you to get out there and put a stop to it.
♪ Perry! ♪
Candace: I can't be part of this race. I mean, what if we win? Would Jeremy still like me?
Stacy: All I know for sure is boys hate to be beaten by girls.
Clyde: There you are, hon. You know where your dad keeps his glue gun?
Candace: Glue gun? What are they up to? Later, Stace. I knew it! I just knew you would be up to something by now. Et tu, Grandpa?
Clyde: No, I just had one. There's more if you want.
Candace: Oh, just wait until Mom hears about this!
Betty Jo: Heads up!
(Betty Jo throws a helmet to Candace)
Candace: Oof!
Betty Jo: Lace 'em up tight, dearie! We've got a score to settle. Win! Win! Win! (She growls)
Phineas: Yeah.
Clyde: Ooh, yeah.
Doofenshmirtz: Will you cool it with the noise, Perry the Platypus? I've got a splitting headache. I was at this evil mixer until late last night, it was crazy. Can you hang out for just one moment? I'm almost there. Hold on. (Doofenshmirtz presses a button, and a cage falls on Perry) Ow! Oh, I've got to get a quieter trap. Now that you're trapped, I will tell you my evil plan. I'm miserable because I can't grow facial hair. It all started when I was about 15. (He begins to flashback, but then stops) Oh, you know, my head hurts too much for a flashback. Anyway, I've tried everything to grow facial hair. It's all so painful. I hate people with beards, et cetera, et cetera. So, who do they erect a statue of right next door? Rutherford B. Hayes, our 19th president! Only the president with the best facial hair of all! Just look at that thing. There's no beard like 19th century beard, Perry the Platypus. Anyway, that horrible statue must be destroyed as it is a constant reminder follicular failure! Oh. Give me just a moment, Perry. This hurts me more that it hurts you. Literally.
(Cut to the Roller Derby)
Betty Jo: ...And then on the final lap, we'll use The Whip to send the weak skater. (to Candace) No offense, honey, but that's you. Over to the finish line—To victory!
Stacy: All I know for sure is boys hate to be beaten by girls.
(In Candace's fantasy)
(Hildegard sobs)
Jeremy: Candace! Have you no mercy?! Come on, Grandma. Let's go home.
(Candace's fantasy ends)
Betty Jo: And remember, honey, show 'em no mercy!
Candace: What am I going to do? I can't beat Jeremy's grandmother. And I can't let my grandmother lose.
(Suzy sneaks in and switches Candace's skates for another pair)
Phineas: (On intercom) Skaters to their marks!
Candace: Oh, great. Maybe I'll get lucky and get hit by a bus.
Phineas: (As an announcer) Hello, everyone, and welcome to today's main event. The "anything goes" grudge race of the century between Grandma Betty Jo and Grandma Hildegard. I'm Phineas Flynn, and I'll be your announcer for today's action, along with our color commentator, Grandpa Clyde!
Clyde: Yellow, green, blue!
Phineas: Excellent color, Grandpa.
Clyde: Glad to oblige.
Phineas: And now, let's rock and roll-erskate derby!
Hildegard: Remember kids, two words...
Candace: Oof!
Hildegard: ...road kill!
Betty Jo: Come on, honey! We've got butt to kick!
(Clyde fires off a starting pistol that simply launches a flag displaying the text "bang"; an air-horn blows)
Phineas: And they're off!
(Song: "Ring of Fun")
♪ When granny get's loose, everybody get out of the way ♪
♪ (Round and round that ring of fun!) ♪
♪ 'Cause she's lacing her boots up at 4:00 A.M. everyday ♪
♪ (Round and round that ring of fun!) ♪
♪ Grudge match grannies who got nothing to lose ♪
♪ Gray-haired lightning wearing knee pads and rouge ♪
♪ Crusin' for a brusin', cause you know they got a real short fuse! ♪
♪ That ring of fun! ♪
♪ Round and round that ring of fun! (X2) ♪
♪ Grudge Match Grannies in the midday sun ♪
♪ Goin' round and round in that ring of fun! ♪
Phineas and Clyde: (Smash their guitars) Yeah!
Phineas: And we're back! Grandpa?
Clyde: Orange, purple, chartreuse!
Doofenshmirtz: So, Perry the Platypus, in order to rid myself of that horrid, bearded statue, I've invented the... (He pushes Perry's cage but soon stops) Ugh. Perry the Platypus, this is so heavy. Can you just step out for a sec? I've invented the Bread-inator! Not only will this machine emit a ray that will turn Mr. President into whole-grain bread, it will also release a flock of hungry magpies that will devour the doughy statue! Beard go bye-bye! (He laughs maniacally) Ow, ow. Aw, my evil head.
Phineas: We're coming to the end of the race. The crowd is going nuts!
Betty Jo: Come on, Candace, time for The Whip!
Hildegard: Okay, one, two, three!
(Both teams preform the whip, send Candace and Jeremy towards the finish line)
Suzy: Go catch her, Jeremy!
Phineas: It's Candace and Jeremy neck and neck as they come down the strait.
Suzy: I don't think so.
(Suzy presses a button on a remote, and rockets send her flying backwards, up a set of stairs, and she bounces off a blimp, to land back with Jeremy)
Jeremy: Wow! Candace, you've  got to teach me how to skate like that.
(Jeremy takes Candace's hand, and Suzy hits the button again, and both Candace and Jeremy are sent flying back)
Phineas: Oh, wait! Candace and Jeremy are back in the race, but they're going the wrong way! (Suzy begins to backpedal to avoid Candace and Jeremy) And now, Suzy is going the wrong way too! At least Ferb's still going the right way! (Ferb gets swept up by the Candace/Jeremy/Suzy rocket train going the other way) Oops, spoke too soon.
Betty Jo: And don't even think about any rough this time, sister, or I'll kick your fat–
(Betty Jo and Hildegard jump over the mass of people coming at them)
Phineas: And it's Betty Jo pulling away! It's Grandma Hildegard coming up on the shoulder! (Hildegard lands on Betty Jo's shoulders) And by "shoulder" I mean Betty Jo's shoulders!
Betty Jo: Get off of me! I can't see!
Phineas: It's Grandma Betty! It's Hildegard! It's Betty! It's Hildegard! It's a tie!
Clyde: A tie? Ooh. Betty Jo ain't gonna like that.
Betty Jo: Well, at least I won this race.
Hildegard: You won? You're crazy! I obviously crossed the finish line first!
Betty Jo: Wrong! And, get off, cheater!
Candace: Hey, Grandma, that was really fun! I thought it'd be lame and I'd hate it, but, I had fun.
Betty Jo: How about you, Hilda? Did you have fun?
Hildegard: Yeah, I did. Maybe it ain't so important who won but that we had fun with the kids.
Betty Jo: Yea, maybe it ain't important. But just for the record, I won.
Hildegard: You mean, even though you lost, it's having fun that's important.
Betty Jo: Who are you calling an loser, cheater?
Hildegard: Who are you calling a cheater, loser?
Betty Jo: That's it! Race ya to the Rutherford B. Hayes statue! Go!
(Everyone but Phineas, Ferb, Candace, and Jeremy dashes off)
Doofenshmirtz: (He sighs) Perry the Platypus...my head is killing me. This is all a wash anyway. I'll turn on the ray and you'll turn off the ray, thwarting my plan. Let's just get it over with, all right? Ray on.
(Doofenshmirtz fires the -inator, but the beam bounces off a mirror, two men were carrying)
(Perry turns off the -inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Ray off. Good.
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I'm just going to lie down for a bit. I promise I'll be more evil next time, alright?
(The magpies are released)
Candace: All right, all right, we've had our kicks. But Mom's still gonna flip when she sees this. (A car door shuts) That's her car! You are so busted! (she skates into the house)
(The Bread-inator hits the roller rink, turning into a giant loaf of bread)
Candace: (coming out of the house) Mom, come on, come on! The boys built a giant roller rink in the backyard– uh...giant loaf of bread?
Phineas: (in the same intonation as "I don't know") Ah 'unno.
Candace: (skates back inside) Moooom Mom! The boys built a giant loaf of bread in the backyard!
Linda: (inside the house) What? I thought you said it was a roller rink.
(The magpies eat the bread)
Candace: It was, but now it's a loaf of bread! (skates back out) Come on, come on! See?! (stops to see that the bread is gone)
Linda: (comes out with Lawrence) Candace, what are you talking about?!
Candace: B-b-b...bread...
Linda: (at Phineas and Ferb) Boys, I think she's finally lost it.
Phineas: Hey, Dad. How'd your speech go?
Lawrence: Well, I have to say it was "thimbly" wonderful.
Phineas: Hey, what's this thing do?
(Phineas presses the button on Suzy's remote)
Candace: Wha–? (Candace is launched off)
Jeremy: Hey, guys. Candace around?
(Jeremy catches Candace as she rockets into his arms)
Ferb: Good catch, Jeremy.
Candace: (She giggles) He sure is.

End Credits
(Song: "Perry the Platypus")
♪ He's a semi-aquatic, egg-laying mammal of action! ♪
♪ (Dooby dooby doo-bah) ♪
♪ (Dooby dooby doo-bah) ♪
♪ He's a furry little flatfoot, who'll never flinch from a fray-ay-ay! ♪
♪ He's got more than just mad skill, ♪
♪ (Wah-ah-ah) ♪
♪ He's got a beaver's tail and a bill! ♪
♪ (ah-ah) And the women swoon whenever they hear him say! ♪
(Perry chatters, women faint)
♪ He's Perry! Perry the Platypus! ♪



(Scene opens up showing a sunrise.)
(Alarm clock rings)
Phineas: Beat you to it again, slow poke. (Laughs) Hey, Ferb. Ready to build the fastest, safest, most on-time backyard railroad ever?
(Ferb puts on a railroad hat)
Phineas: All right! You man the boiler, I'll handle the brakes. Perry can be the station's mascot.
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: Wow. It's really nice out today. It's almost like everything in nature is simultaneously saying:
Squirrel: Ahh!
Bird/Worm: Ahh!
Spider: Ahh!
Baby Spiders: Ahh!
Patient: Ahh.
Phineas: You know, Ferb, everyday we do something really big. But you know the one thing we haven't done? Relax. I say we take advantage of this perfect day and have the best do-nothing day ever.
Candace: Hey, Stacy. Yes, yes. I'm ready for Jeremy's band's outdoor concert at the summer festival! Today's gonna be amazing! (Clock ticks) (Sniffs) All right, what gives? It's already 9:00 and there's no construction noise, no delivery trucks, no-- (Bird chirps) No nothing? They're just standing there. Like statues. Statues...
Phineas (in Candace's mind): Good thinking, Ferb. We'll put these decoys up so Candace thinks we're doing nothing. Then, when Candace isn't looking, we'll do something! (Wicked laughter)
Candace: (Gasps) Not today, they don't!
Linda: Hi, boys. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: We're doing nothing today.
Linda: Well, I'm off to the festival to set up my tea cozy stand. Bye!
Phineas: Bye, Mom! Hey, where's Perry?

(Garbage clattering)
(Dance music; record scratch)
Major Monogram: Oh, hey, Agent P. Carl, give me a close up. So, uh, anyway... Stop Doofenshmirtz. (at Carl) Hit it, Carl.
(Dance music)

(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Phineas: Hi, Candace.
Candace: I'm not here for "Hi's". Today is a pivotal moment in my life. You see, Jeremy's band is gonna play at the festival. Jeremy's gonna see me in the crowd. Not just because I have front row seats, but because I'm gonna be cheering harder that anyone else. Like this: "WOO! YEAH! WOO! BABY! OH YEAH, SING IT!" Then we're gonna date through high school and college, marry and have two kids: Xavier and Amanda. So don't you dare ruin it with one of your little project thingies!
Phineas: No problem, Candace. 'Cause today we're doing nothing anyway.
Candace: And don't try to give me-- Did you say "Nothing"?
Phineas: Nothing.
Candace: (Gasps) Nothing?
Phineas: Nothing.
Candace: Standing is something.
Phineas/Ferb: (Slowly fall on their backs)
Candace: Hmm. Well, you can't do nothing forever. And when you stop doing nothing, I'll start doing something, and that something will be busting you! (Slams door) Look at them plotting my downfall. (Dials phone)
("I'm Lindana and I Wanna Have Fun! Instrumental")
Linda: Hello?
Candace: Mom! Phineas and Ferb are doing nothing! Nothing, in a relentless effort to ruin my day!
Linda: Candace, honey, why can't you just relax, and let your brothers enjoy their do-nothing day?
Candace: Could it really be possible? Could Phineas and Ferb actually be doing nothing? You're right, Mom. I should just try and relax until Stacy picks me up for the concert.
Linda: Exactly. Love ya.
Candace: Well, If they really are doing nothing, I guess I've got some time to go about my personal business. Let's see... What do I usually do? I know! I'll call Stacy and tell her how I'm busting Phineas and Ferb for-- Oh yeah, can't do that 'cause they're not doing anything. Wait a minute! I know! I'll put this camera in just the right spot so when Phineas and Ferb are-- Ugh! And then when Phineas and Ferb walk by I'll-- Ugh! Well, if there's one thing I know, I'm gonna look sooo good when I bust them for-- Agh! Face it! You cant do anything unless you're trying to bust them for doing something. And if they're doing nothing, then... (Sobbing) "Who is Candace?"
Phineas: Ah...
(Paper rips)
Candace: Hey, Phineas. Is it the perfect day to build one of these or what?
Phineas: Sorry, Candace, it's like we said; We're pursuing the best do nothing day ever. But if you put it in our inbox, we'll try to build it tomorrow.
Candace: (Crumples blueprint) Ugh! (Rips out another blueprint) Huh, huh? Time traveling submarine? Come on!
Phineas: Candace, now you're just taking pages from our project book.
Candace: (Blushes) How can I inspire them to build something? Argh! (Turns on TV)
TV Announcer: Are you a boy, doing nothing with your stepbrother today? Do you like high adventure?
Boys: Yeah!
TV Announcer: Then we have the product for you! It's the Amazing Man-Eating Dinosaur-Themed Totally Sick Waterslide of Doom! That's right, kids. The Amazing Man-Eating Dinosaur-Themed Totally Sick Waterslide of Doom Can be delivered in just minutes! And it's so easy to assemble, even a 5-year-old can build it!
Boy: I did it!
TV Announcer: Call now!
Candace: (Dials phone)
Delivery Guy: There, that's the last of it. By the way, aren't you a little too old to be building one of these?
Candace: Why, yes. Yes I am. Okay, I'll get this thing started. And then because they're men, they'll want to take over and show me how to do it. Then I'll call Mom and bust them!
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
(Perry barges into the room)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, hello, Perry the Platypus. I'd like to introduce you to something. (He zaps Perry, causing the latter to run in slow motion)
♪ (Distorts) Perry... ♪
♪ (Slow-mo) Dooby dooby doo wah ♪
♪ Dooby dooby doo wah ♪
♪ Doo ♪
Doofenshmirtz: My Slow Motion-inator! This way, you're too slow to foil my evil scheme and I don't have to worry about capturing you. Problem solved. Anyway, let's get down to business. I don't know if you've ever noticed, but I'm not exactly very... Mmm, what do the kids call it these days? Handsome. My doctor says it's genetic, but I don't blame my parents. I blame everyone else in the entire Tri-State Area for being better-looking that me. So, I invented this. My Ugly-Inator! (Frog croaks) It harnesses the horned frog's unpleasant appearance to render it's target ugly! Let me give you a demonstration on handsome movie actor Vance Ward.
Vance: Hi, I'm Vance Ward.
Doofenshmirtz: If it can turn him ugly, it can turn anything ugly. Are you ready, Vance?
Vance: I guess, but I didn't get a script. I mean, what's my motivation in this scene?
Doofenshmirtz: Motivation? Oh, I think it will be clear to you in a second. (Shoots Vance with Ugly-Inator)
(Honk)
Doofenshmirtz: (Laughs) Now onto the rest of the Tri-State Area! Oh, and Perry the Platypus, you know what the best part of my plan is? I can do it from the comfort of my own living room! With my favorite flat-screen TV and recliner. (Sits on recliner) Ah...

Candace: Oh, hey, boys. I see you're still doing nothing. Oh, don't mind me. I'm just carrying a few construction supplies for a really huge super cool contraption. (Laughs) You know, like the ones you used to build. Well, I figured I'd get in on the fun today. Oh, pardon my reach! Just trying to get into the most convenient position to drive this stake into the ground. Oh yeah! I'm really having fun now!
Phineas: Uh, Candace?
Candace: Oh, I know what you're gonna say. Of course you can take over the whole operation.
Phineas: Uh, actually, I was gonna ask if you could keep the noise down.
Candace: Uh, well, back onto the important things in life, like having fun! (In a cement truck) Remember when you used to have this much fun? (In a crane) All this fun could be yours too. All you have to do is join me! (Building the contraption; jackhammer clinking) Okay, okay, I don't want to brag, but fun loves me more than it loves you right now... (Cell phone rings)

♪ (Slow mo, deep voice) Doo be doo be doo wa doo ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Whoop! (Laughs maniacally) Yoo hoo, Perry the Platypus, come and get it! 
♪ (Slow mo, deep voice) Doo be doo be doo ♪
Oh, I forgot! You're too slow to catch me now! (Laughs) 
♪ (Slow mo, deep voice) Doo be doo be doo wa (x3) ♪
♪ Doo be ♪
Oh, duh! Of course! You were going for the Slow Motion-inato--. Wait! Wait, no! Don't touch the reverse switch!
(Perry flips the switch and the laser from the Ugly-inator zaps. Suspense and action music)
Doofenshmirtz: (Laughs; Zaps Perry with Ugly-inator) (Honk) (Snorts; Laughs) You should see yourself! You're so ugly! (Ugly-inator zaps TV) (Honk; Zaps recliner) (Honk; Lever flips, Anchor goes down)

Stacy: Candace, where are you? It's time to go! (Gasps) Candace?
Candace: Who's having fun now?! It's like boredom's a bad rash, and I'm a shot of cortisone!
Stacy: Candace, what are you doing? I've been trying to call you all afternoon!
Candace: What does it look like?! I'm busting my brothers!
Stacy: But the concert's starting right now.
Candace: (Gasps) Jeremy! Oh, my gosh! I spent so much time busting my brothers, I forgot about the concert!
(Anchor hooks the contraption's nose)
Stacy: Candace, what's happening?
Candace: It didn't say anything in the instructions about being lifted up in the air!
(Both scream)
(Song: "Do Nothing Day")
Jeremy: ♪ Beautiful, kind and gentle ♪
♪ And loving and softness and sweetness and candy and gum ♪
(Ugly-inator fires)
♪ Peppermint and Pi-- ♪
(Ugly-inator hits them)
(Song: "Ugly")
♪ We're dead ugly ♪
♪ We're so ugly ♪
(Ugly-unator hits crowd)
Candace/Stacy: (Screaming)
Jeremy: ♪ We're ugly, yes, ugly ♪
♪ We're so ugly ♪
♪ I can't breathe ♪
♪ It's hard to breathe... ♪
Candace: Who are these guys?
Stacy: They must be the opening act!

(Perry shoots the Ugly-inator at Doofenshmirtz)
(Honk)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh no! Now I'm ugly! Oh. Oh, I get it. Hardy-har-har.
(Perry replaces the frog with the Vance Ward picture)
Doofenshmirtz: My autographed picture of Vance Ward! Oh, you've perverted my ugly invention with something beautiful!
(Perry shoots the Ugly-inator at Vance)
Vance: Thanks, whoever you are. Now, get me out of here!
(Perry then shoots the Ugly-inator at Jeremy and the Incidentals)

(Heavy metal)
(Ugly-inator hits them)
Jeremy: ♪ Bunnies and happy songs, we can all hum ♪
(Ugly-inator hits crowd)

(Perry shoots the Ugly-inator at himself)
Doofenshmirtz: What about my TV and chair?
(Belts rip)
Vance: (Screaming) Get me off this thing! (Screams)
(Perry flips the reverse switch on the slow Motion-Inator then shoots Vance and himself)
♪ (Slow Mo, Deep voice) Doo be doo be doo ba... ♪
(Perry shoots Ugly-Inator at hot air balloon)
Doofenshmirtz: My balloon! Curse you, Perry the Platypus!

Linda: Hey, boys, I'm home. Oh, I see you're still enjoying your do nothing day.
Phineas: Yeah, Mom. It was the best lazy day ever. Oh, there you are, Perry.
Vance: (Deep, warped voice) Where am I?
Ferb: And with handsome movie actor Vance Ward. He seems much faster on TV.

End Credits
Jeremy: Come on!
(Song: "Do Nothing Day")
♪ Slow down and look around you ♪
Candace: ♪ All around ♪
Jeremy: ♪ Throw your To-Do list away ♪
♪ The clouds look like sheep and vice versa ♪
♪ On a do nothing day ♪
Candace: ♪ On a do nothing day ♪
Both: ♪ Our do nothing day ♪
Candace: This is the best day ever!



(At the Flynn-Fletcher House)
Narrator: And now, back to "Neanderthal: The Pride of the Paleolithic". The Neanderthals were great makers of tools, as well as skilled hunters. It's also believed that they had a highly advanced language. For example: (The narrator imitates the language of the Neanderthal)
Narrator: ...Is how they may have said "I love you" or "Please take out the trash". But one day, the fateful ice storms came. The Neanderthals blamed each other for being ill-equipped to survive the harsh cold. Many were frozen in glaciers and may be preserved to this very day. We will return to our program after a brief word from our sponsor.
(Song: Sandwich Town jingle)
♪ Turkey on rye or plain bologna meat ♪
♪ Our sandwich guy will make you want to eat ♪
Phineas: Hmm... I wonder if there's a caveman in the Danville Glacier.
Commercial: Come on down to Sandwich Town.
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! (They come back with sandwiches from Sandwich Town) You know what else we should do today? Go search for a caveman at the Danville Glacier!
Candace: (Trying on different costumes) Oh, I've got to find the perfect outfit to wear to Stacy's costume party. That's it! A disco diva! Nah. A corn dog! Nah. I know! I'll ask Jeremy! (Talking to a photo of Jeremy taped on top of a teddybear) What do you think about my costumes, Jeremy? (As Jeremy) Gee, Candace, I think you look beautiful and everything. Will you be my girlfriend? (Cell phone rings) (As herself) Oh, yes, Jeremy! I will be your girlfriend! (Ringing continues) What? The prom? (At phone) What?!
Jeremy: Uh, Candace?
Candace: (As Jeremy) No-- Uh, just a minute, please. (Clears throat) Hi, Jeremy!
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. Are you going to Stacy's party?
Candace: Yes.
Jeremy: Cool. It's gonna be wicked. I'm going as a caveman. I'll see you there.
Candace: (Giggles) Bye, Jeremy! (She hangs up) Ghee! It's perfect! I'll dress up like a cavewoman, and Jeremy and I will be all matchy, and it'll be like we're on a date! (She laughs excitedly, throwing clothes)
Phineas: Okay, let's go over our checklist.
Lawrence: Well, boys, we're off to the Center for Historically Relevant Botanical Gardens, a virtual treasure trove of topical topiaries.
Linda: I'm sure it'll be riveting. What are you boys doing today?
Phineas: Archaeological dig!
Linda: Okay. Don't touch the flower beds.
Phineas: Wouldn't think of it!  Hey, where's Perry?
(Perry sneaks up the drainpipe, and across a telephone wire, dressed as a magpie, and enters his layer via a telephone box)
Major Monogram: (Chuckles) Oh, there you are, Agent P. (Chuckles) Carl, he fell for it! (Chuckles)
(Carl laughs)
Major Monogram: We were just kidding about the whole magpie costume. (Perry rips off beak) Anyway, Doofenshmirtz is up to something. Seek out that wild-eyed miscreant and found out what he's up to.
Carl: Ooh! Tell him to do it dressed as a rabbit!
Major Monogram: Ooh, and Agent P, could– Could you do it dressed as a... Bunny? (He laughs)
Carl: Good one, sir.
Major Monogram: A big pink bunny.
♪ Perry! ♪
Candace: Wait till Jeremy sees how hot I am in my smokin' cave girl outfit. (Her phone ringing and she picks it up) Ooga-booga!
Stacy: Hi, it's Stace. Do you think you could bring a sandwich platter to the party?
Candace: Sure! Ooh, I'll brink roast beef! Jeremy eats roast beef on Phinedays and Saturferbs. (Yelling at Phineas and Ferb who passed by her door) Phineas and Ferb, you're lustin' for a bustin'
Stacy: Candace! Forget your brothers! Remember? Jeremy.
Candace: Right. Jeremy. Sandwiches. True love, your house. Bye!
(At Danville Glacier)
Phineas: Well, Ferb, let's scout around and see what's what. All right, let's see... Jurassic, Cretaceous, Plasticine... Oh, here's Paleolithic, down here on the end.
(Perry enters Doofenshmirtz's layer, and is trapped by a helmet, lifting him off the ground)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus! Oh, your persistence is insufferable. And by that, I mean completely sufferable. You're just in time, though, to watch me rid the Tri-State Area of one of my biggest pet peeves: People who dress as sandwiches to promote restaurants. (Pictures of said people flash on screen) You see? You see what I mean? What is this? Are you a person or are you a food? For some reason, I don't mind the taco guy so much. Look at his cute little hat. Anyway, the whole thing sickens me to no end, which is why I created the Sandwich Remove-Inator It sucks all sandwich suits up into the air and then shreds them to teensy, weensy pieces. Today I will fly all over the city and strip anyone dressed as a sandwich right down to their skivvies! (He laughs crazily) Ugh... I've become my mother.
(Techno music)
Candace: (Looking into a mirror) ♪ Ooh, oh, yeah After Jeremy sees me lookin' so fly ♪
♪ He's gonna wanna be my guy ♪
♪ Uh-huh, uh-huh ♪
(Candace's sell phone rings, Techno music stops)
Candace: Oh, hi, Stacy! Yes, sandwiches. I'm on it!
(In the garage, with a caveman frozen in a block of ice)
Phineas: This will be fantastic! Think of all the practical applications a caveman can have in the modern world. (Pause) Actually, you know, besides politics, I can't think of anything. (Phineas turns on hair dryer, and begins melting the ice) But wait till he says what we've done with the wheel, and fire, and shiny objects.
(The ice cracks) We did it!
Caveman: Me Conk.
Phineas: Me Phineas, he Ferb.
(Ferb waves)
Conk: Conk hungry. Food! (He runs off)
Phineas: Oh no, Conk! That's a carburet... or.
Conk: (Chewing on carburetor)
Phineas: Uh, seriously, Conk, me go to kitchen for food, while you wait here with Ferb. Wow. Not a very sophisticated palate.
Conk: Ahh...
Candace: ♪ Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, uh-huh, uh-huh ♪
Phineas: Hey, Candace. You think you could spare a sandwich?
Candace: Well, I'm sure I can spare one. I know how men are about their meat. "Argh! Me manly man! Me like meat!"
Phineas: Gee, uh, thanks, sis. Cool outfit, by the way. You should meet our new friend. He's a real Neanderthal.
Candace: I don't care how buff he is. Me, hang out with one of your friends? Puh-leeze. Now run along before I take my sandwich back. And if you even think about trying something funny today, you're gonna get it!
Phineas: Get what?
Candace: It!
Phineas: Well, if "it" is another sandwich, I'll take it now, please.
Doofenshmirtz: At last, my efforts have come to fruition! And nothing can stop me! (Turns on Sandwich Remove-Inator, Sputters) Hmm. (He walks out, and returns with a gas nozzle) I told Vanessa if she takes out the big head, she has to fill it up. (Doofenshmirtz fills the -inator) Ah, yes. All zeroes make it so much easier to balance my check-- Perry the Platypus, are you asleep? (He groans) Sometimes I wonder why I even bother to soliloquize. Where was I? At last-- Well, you remember the rest. (Doofenshmirtz flies out)
(Perry picks the lock on his trap with a coat hanger, and whistles for his rocket car to come pick him up, he then proceeds to chase ofter Doofenshmirtz)
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba ♪
♪ Agent P! ♪
(Ferb watches over Conk as he experiments with what is around him, while Ferb keeps him in check)
Phineas: Hey, guys, good news. I got refreshments!
(Conk eats the sandwich Phineas brought)
Phineas: A little something to wash it down?
(Conk drinks the entire six-pack of soda Phineas handed to him)
Phineas: I guess we'd be hungry, too, if we hadn't eaten in 28,000 years. Come on, Ferb. Let's go wrangle up some snacks for our new pal. (To Conk) You stay put, and we'll be back.
Candace: (Walking by the garage) ♪ Happy, happy sandwich man ♪
♪ Mm-hmm, mm-hmm ♪
Conk: Sandwiches! (He follows after Candace)
Phineas: Good news! We got a plethora of sandwiches for ya! (Phineas sees that Conk is no longer there) Um, Conk? Uh oh.
(Candace knocks on the door, and Conk comes up behind her, and eats all the sandwiches)
Candace: Jeremy? Is that you? Wow, great costume! I hardly recognize you.
Stacy: Yay! it's Candace, and...
Candace: And Jeremy!
Stacy: And you guys are all matchy!
Candace: Yeah.
Stacy: Hey, everybody, Candace and Jeremy are here!
Boy dressed as a robot: Jeremy, dude! Sweet costume, bro!
Conk: (Punches him)
Boy: Okay, you're not my bro!
Stacy: Come on, let's dance!
(Stacey turns on some techno music)
Candace: Ooh, I love this song! Dance with me, Jeremy!
(Conk screams and grabs and destroys radio)
Candace: (Fake laugh) Yeah, he really hates techno.
Conk: (Sniffs) Food! (Chewing)
Candace: Hey, Jeremy, isn't this a great party? (Conk grabs her by the waist, and picks her up) Jeremy, you're so primitive. Woo!
(Candace's cellphone rings)
Stacy: Candace...
Candace: Hold that thought. (Picks up phone) Hello?
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. Sorry I'm running late, but I just finished getting ready.
Candace: Yeah, you look amazing! Wait, what?
Jeremy: See ya soon.
Stacy: Who was that?
Candace: J-J-J-J--
Stacy: Huh? I don't know a J-J-J-J.
Candace: But if that was... then who–
Phineas: (As a memory) You should meet our new friend. He's a real Neanderthal. (Neanderthal echoes)
Candace: Ooh, Phineas and Ferb are behind this! (Speed dial) Mom!
Linda: (On the line with Candace) Uh huh. Uh huh. Uh huh. Uh huh. Okay.
Lawrence: So, what is it this time?
Linda: She says they have a real caveman.
Lawrence: Well, you can say what you like about Candace, but there's nothing primitive about her imagination.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, well, well, what do you know? A hapless sandwich man. Prepare to be eaten by the Remove-Inator!
(Remove-Inator sucks sandwich costume and brochures)
Man: Mother of mayonnaise!
Doofenshmirtz: Yes! It is functioning properly! Oh no! Perry the Platy-- Oof!
Candace: I demand you let me go, you-- You-- Friend of Phineas and Ferb!
(Conk drops Candace)
Candace: When my Mom gets here, you're gonna be in big trouble.
Phineas: There you are, Conk. Looky kooky! (Ferb holds up a sandwich platter)
Doofenshmirtz: Oof!
(Perry pulls lever and the sandwich Remove-Inator drops sandwich costume)
Doofenshmirtz: I got you know, Perry the Platy– Oof! (He falls off) Curse you, Perry the Platy– Oof!
Phineas: There you go, Conky. There you go.
(Conk eats sandwiches)
(Perry jumps off and pulls parachute as the Sandwich-Remove-Inator crashes into Danville Glacier)
♪ Agent P! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (Now in the sandwich costume that fell from his -inator) Ugh... What smells like mustard? Huh? (He screams)
Conk: That big sandwich!
Phineas: Well, I guess we can't compete with a sandwich like that.
(Conk chases after Doofenshmirtz)
Phineas: They say if you love something, let it go.
Ferb: Especially if it's a caveman.
Phineas: Yeah. Especially if it's a caveman.



(Scene opens up showing Ferb looking through binoculars.)
Phineas: How's the view up there, Ferb?(Ferb gives a thumbs up)
Phineas: This is the life. The sand, the sea, the sun.
Buford: (Sobbing)
Phineas: The crying? Hey, what's wrong, Buford? Why are you crying?
Buford: First, let's get one thing straight: I'm not crying. I'm just sweating through my eyes. And second...I lost Biff! (Sobbing)
Phineas: You mean your goldfish?
Buford: Yes! (Sobbing) He changed my life, you know. I used to be a wimp, just like you. But then, one day, at the carnival, I was somehow drawn to this game.
Young Buford: (Hammers, Ding)
Buford: And that's how I won my goldfish. I named it Biff, after my mother. It was the happiest day of my life. But then I met the local bully.
Bully: Hello, nerd! Well, well, what do we have here? Looks like you brought me lunch! (Puts Biff over his mouth) (Laughs)
Buford: I knew I had to defend my friend, so I did what I had to do.
(Punches landing)
After that, I became the bully. And I wasn't afraid of anything or anybody. Except, you know, maybe a giant squid, cause-- Come on, those are freaky, right? All suction cuppy and beaky. (Waves splashing) But then, today...Biff and I decided to go for a swim. After a while, I couldn't hear him anymore. I got worried.
Flashback Buford: No! NO!!
(Flashback ends)
Buford: (Sobbing hysterically)
Phineas: Wow. This was more annoying than when he was bullying us. We gotta do something to get the old Buford back. Maybe we should help him find his fish.
Buford: Really? You guys would do that? How about a hug?
Phineas: Maybe later.
Buford: Let Buford hug you.
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?
Buford: Come here!

(Surf Rock music, Water splashing)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P. We've intercepted some very surprising footage from a local TV station. (Plays video)
Reporter: Breaking news: A kitten in peril! Up a tree! (Cat falls) Oh no!
(Doofenshmirtz trips, Kitten falls in his bag)
Wow, a good Samaritan saved her!
Major Monogram: (Stops video) You see that? Dr. Doofenshmirtz saving a kitten. Looks like he's defecting to the good side! Make contact and present him with our standard welcome package. Monogram out.
(Perry opens chest, Pulls out welcome package)

Candace: (Puts on glasses shaped like the sun) How about these? Do you think Jeremy would like them? (Gasps) Ooh, these are even better!
Stacy: Hey, Candace, look, is that a submarine? (Helicopter whirring) And aren't those your brothers?
Phineas: I can't believe how fast we put this together.
Ferb: Yes. Usually takes us at least a montage.
Candace: (Wearing fish glasses) They're not getting away with this. I know what I'm getting. I'm gonna get this disposable camera, and then I'll finally have proof, and I can bust them!
Store Owner: Hey, you gotta pay for that!
Candace: Right after I pay for this.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
(Perry presses doorbell buzzer)
Doofenshmirtz: Hello? Oh, Perry the Platypus. What do you want? Oh, a gift for me? (Unhooks chain lock) Oh, how sweet of you! Oh, what's this note attached? "Congratulations, Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz, on defecting to the good side"? Oh no, not you, too! The TV's been repeating that news footage all day! First, I'm not going to the good side. Second, I'm going to keep this basket. There's a lot of goodies here. Third, let me tell you what really happened.
(Flashback)
(Narrating) I was out picking up a few things, and as I was walking out of the store, I tripped on something. As I fell, out of nowhere this kitten landed in my bag!
(Flashback ends)
(Groans) After all my evil attempts to dominate the Tri-State Area, this one little accident has ruined my reputation. Worst of all, it happened on the eve of the Evil Scientists' Fraternity Reunion. If they see that broadcast, I'll be a laughingstock. They might even take away my membership, and then I'll lose all my benefits.
(Perry looks at watch, and walks away)
Uh, hello? (Presses button on remote)
(Robot arms trap Perry)
I wasn't done talking yet. That was sort of rude.

Phineas: All right, Isabella. Now it's your turn, Baljeet.
Buford: (Sobbing)
Baljeet: Why is Buford crying?
Buford: I'm not cryin'! I'm sweatin' through my eyes! (Sobbing)
Phineas: All right, Buford. You're next.
Buford: That doesn't look very safe. (Goes in)
Phineas: You're doing fine.
Buford: Hey, I'm stuck! I'm stuck! (Sobbing)
(Ferb jumps on Buford)
Isabella: Hey, Buford, are you...sweating out of your eyes?
Buford: (pause) No, I'm just cryiiiiiing! (Sobbing) (Ferb lands on him) Thanks. I needed that.
(Phineas goes in, then Candace secretly goes in)
Isabella: Ready when you are, Captain.
Phineas: We're ready to go. How's Buford?
Buford: Buford is doing great! I just hope we'll be able to find my friend Biff. (Points at bowl, Sobbing)
Phineas: Don't worry. Ferb can communicate with dolphins. (Dolphins chirping) They'll help us find your goldfish.
Buford: (Gasps) Biff! He looks so sweet! (Sobbing, Puts picture in fish bowl) How about a hug? (Ferb puts hand up) Come on!
Phineas: All right, everyone, the dolphins are leading the way.
Candace: (Snapshot)
Phineas: Let's follow those aquatic mammals.
Baljeet: Aye aye, Captain!
Buford: (Babbling)
Phineas: Uh, Buford, you just stay put.
(Song: "Fish Out of Water")
Buford: (Whimpering)
♪ When I'm soaking in my bath, I dump you in the tub ♪
♪ There's no need to say another word, you had me at "Glub" ♪
♪ Your bowl became my world, so my world is empty now ♪
♪ All my love's caught in your filter, it needs to get to you somehow ♪
♪ They say that there's plenty of fish in the sea ♪
♪ But you're the only one for me ♪
♪ Without you, I'm a fish out of water ♪
♪ I'm hooked, please throw a line to me ♪
Buford: (Sobbing)
Phineas: We've got to find that fish. Soon.
(Submarine flowing)
Baljeet: I've got something on the radar!
(Radar pinging)
Candace: (Snapshot)
Phineas: All right, it's time for a swim!
Buford: You found my friend? How about a hug? (Sobs) Hug!
Candace: (Snapshot)
Buford: Biff! Biff! Buford love Biff!

Doofenshmirtz: So, Perry the Platypus, allow me to introduce the Media Erase-inator! Patent pending, Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc. It will erase all video signals, print ads, basically it will erase any image in the entire Tri-State Area! And I will be able to attend my reunion without any embarrassment.
Perry: (Whips head, fedora flies and hits remote, breaking the remote and releasing trap)
Doofenshmirtz: Huh? But I-- (Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz) Oof!

Buford: Hey, guys, look! He missed me.
Phineas: It sure looks like it.
Buford: (Puts fishbowl through Biff) There you go, little buddy. You're all safe now. Let's get out of here.
(Dolphins chirping)
(Octopus tentacle come out of hole)
I got my Biff back. Thank you, guys! How about a hug?
Phineas: Maybe later.
Buford: I'm so happy, I could cry! (Sobbing)
(Octopus tentacle grabs Ferb)
Phineas: I wish we'd get our Buford back. Uh, Buford?
Buford: (Screams)
Phineas: (On the octopus tentacle) A little help here?
Buford: (Goes into submarine)
(Octopus tentacle reaches into submarine)
Isabella: Oh, good, you found Biff! (Screams)
Baljeet: Hey, where are Phineas and Ferb? (Screams)
Buford: (Gasps) It's all suction cuppy and beaky! (Whimpering)
(Octopus tentacle takes fishbowl)
NO! BIFF!!
Phineas: Hmm. A giant squid. What are the odds?
Baljeet: My money is on the squid.
Isabella: Cut me off a slice of that action,
(Octopus tries to eat Biff, but Buford interrupts)
Buford: Hey, squid! (Jumps off) Drop the goldfish! You and me are gonna dance!
(Octopus puts Biff back into fishbowl)
(Buford punches octopus)
(Octopus falls into ocean, everyone but Buford falls onto submarine)
Phineas: So, I guess that's that.
Baljeet: I do not know how he does it.
Isabella: Always go for the long shots, kid.
Phineas: Good day for Buford, huh? He got Biff back, and I don't think he's afraid of squids anymore.
Buford: Alright, there's nothing to see here. Everybody back inside.
Candace: That was amazing! I can't believe I got all of this on film.
Buford: (Goes into submarine)
Phineas: Hey, Buford, you were really brave out there.
Buford: What's that supposed to mean? (Grabs Phineas) You think I was a wimp before?
Baljeet: N-no, not really. But you were a lot more sensitive.
Buford: What did you say? (Drops Phineas, Does the Wet Willie on Baljeet)
Phineas: Yeah, Buford is back!
Candace: (Come out of submarine) What? I've got to save the camera! Save the camera, save the camera, save the camera!
(Submarine sails to dock, Submarine door opens)
Baljeet: Yay! We are back! We made it! (Falls back)
Buford: I told ya I was comin' out first! Biff and I have some catchin' up to do.
Candace: Save the camera, save-save the cam-- Save the camera. Save the camera, save the camera, save the camera. (Notices bike) Save the camera, save the camera, save the camera!
Store Owner: Hey, you gotta pay for that.
Candace: Right after I pay for this.

(Media Erase-Inator zapping everywhere)
Doofenshmirtz: It's going crazy! It's shooting all over willy-nilly, but really half-nilly!
(Lasers hits Love Händel billboard, TV Store, and newspaper stand)

Candace: I can't wait to show this to Mom! Hee hee hee.

(Laser hits Stop sign; Cars crash, a truck skids and hits a water tower leaking water everywhere)

Candace: Finally, I got those boys! (Water splashing, Film springs out of camera)

♪ Doo be doo be doo ba (X4) ♪
(Media Erase-inator fizzing)
(Perry grabs wire circuit lid and flies off)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait! Where are you going? (Media Erase-inator blows up) Curse you, Perry the Platypus! (Kitten falls into his hands) Oh, come on!

(Vacuum whirring)
(Door opens, Vacuum turns off)
Linda: Candace, honey, you're all wet. Are you okay?
Candace: Phineas and Ferb...submarine...dolphins...giant octopus...
Linda: I don't have time for these games. Dry yourself off before you come in.
Phineas: Hey, sis. Have a good swim?
Candace: (Growls)

End Credits
(Song: "Fish Out of Water")
♪ They say that there's plenty of fish in the sea ♪
♪ But you're the only one for me ♪
♪ Without you, I'm a fish out of water ♪
♪ I'm hooked, please throw a line to me ♪



(Scene opens up showing buildings in England.)
Lawrence: Ooh! Merry old England. How I love our yearly holiday to my parents' home. Big Ben, Buckingham Palace, oh, the White Cliffs of Dover. Stonehenge.
Phineas: Either I’ve grown a lot in the last year, or England's gotten smaller.
Lawrence: Here we are. The old homestead.
Candace: Look! There's Grandma and Grandpa Fletcher.
Phineas: Grandpa! Grandma!
Grandpa Reg: Ahh! Phineas, Ferb! My boys!
Grandma Winifred: Oh, Ferb, you're looking more like your grandfather. Just look at that resemblance. What do you think, dear?
(She places a fake mustache, and fake hairpiece on Ferb)
Grandpa Fletcher: He's a right handsome lad, he is.
Grandma Fletcher: You can keep these. I've got loads of them.
Candace: Hi, Grandpa. Hi, Grandma.
Grandpa Fletcher: Candace? Can that be you? You look like a right beauteous princess.
Candace: Thanks!
(Car honking)
Lawrence: Ta-ta. We're off to the antique convention. See you tonight.
Phineas: Hey, Gramps, what's that cool castle next door?
Grandpa Fletcher: Oh, aye, that's our neighbors, Lord and Lady Pipping. It used to belong to the Black Knight.
Phineas: The Black Knight?
Grandpa Fletcher: Such a wonderful tale of valor.
(Song: "Ballad of the Black Knight")
♪ The Black Knight of Worcestershire ♪
♪ Some say it's "Worcester-sheer" ♪
♪ Went out to fight the dragon ♪
♪ No one else would volunteer ♪
♪ The Hounds of Heck chased after him ♪
♪ Through all the moors and lands ♪
♪ Because his suit of armor ♪
♪ Was recycled dog food cans ♪
♪ The Black Knight of "Worcester-sheer" ♪
♪ Some say it's "Worcestershire" ♪
♪ He rode off with his Hounds of Heck ♪
♪ To face the dragon's fire! ♪
Grandpa Fletcher: Here, immortalized in bronze, is the Black Knight himself and his Hounds of Heck on their final charge to vanquish the dragon. And here is the disastrous results. (Reginald leads the boys to a statue that shows the dragon with forks and knives, while the black knight is being cooked) Legend says that the Black Knight's ghost still haunts these foggy moors, riding in search of the dragon, followed by his pack of fierce hounds.
Phineas: Hey, I know what we should do today. Grandpa Fletcher, let's have a medieval tournament just like the knights did in the days of yore. We can he jousting and catapults and not bathe.
Grandpa Fletcher: Way ahead of you on the not bathing.
Candace: (Sighs) Man, Stacy, everything here is so old, wet and small, and... and...
Charles: En garde, Stubbings! Ha ha! Come on, man! Parry and riposte. (laughs) I've run you through, Stubbings.
Stubbings: Yes. Delightful, Master Charles. Clearly, you have mastered the rules of tennis.
Candace: Uh, Stacy, I'll call you back.
Stubbings: I believe it's my serve. Oh, dear. I have punned.
(Charles laughs)
Phineas: (Dressed as a fool) Back it up! Back it up! (Trucks beep) Good. Right there. Lumber over here, suckling pigs over there. Hold it! That pig's barely suckling. What do I look like, a fool? (The man carrying the pig shoves an apple into the pig's mouth) That's what I'm talking about. Carry on. (To Ferb) So, you ready to chop some lumber, Ferb? (Ferb salutes) Hey, where's Perry?
(At Perry's lair...)
Major Monogram: Ahh, Agent P. Sorry about the tight squeeze, but they're on the metric system. Doofenshmirtz is attending an evil scientists' convention in London. We're sending you in undercover, disguised as evil scientist Dr. Lloyd Wexler who, incidentally, is the man sitting next to you. Good luck, Agent P.
(Back in England Phineas is building a horse)
Candace: Phineas?
Phineas: Oh, hi, Candace.
Candace: What do you think you're doing?
Phineas: I think I'm building a horse.
(The horse whinnies)
Candace: There's a cute boy next door, and I don't want you guys scaring him off by acting like complete freaks.
Charles: Beg pardon?
Candace: Hello. (Giggles)
Charles: I'm Charles Pipping the fourth.
Candace: I'm Candace Flynn... the First.
Charles: So, what's all this?
Candace: This? Uh... This is just a--
Phineas: We're putting on a medieval tournament.
Candace: Medieval tournament? That has to be, without a doubt, the most--
Charles: Brilliant idea I've heard in years!
Candace: Exactly. (Laughs) Because who doesn't love whatever happens at one of those... Those... Things?
Phineas: Wanna join us?
Charles: Absolutely. We could use my family's castle as a backdrop. And you can be the fair princess in the tower, waiting to be rescued by a handsome knight.
Candace: (she blinks twice) Okay!
(At Evil-Con)
Man #1: Welcome to Evil-Con, Dr. Lloyd Wexler. Hey! Wait a second. (Moves ID card to reveal Perry disguised as Dr. Wexler) You didn't get your evil button. Enjoy the convention, Dr. Wexler.
(At the castle)
Candace: (With a fake British accent) As the fair princess in the tower, I declare Sir Charles the winner of the tournament... (Thinks using her normal voice) Wait a second. Could this be one of those things that backfires horribly on me? (Pauses) Nah.
Charles: Looks like that armor is big enough for the two of you.
Phineas: That's a great idea. (To Ferb) Ferb, I'll take the top half because I tend to do more of the talking, and you take the bottom half because of your incredibly long, willowy legs.
Candace: Yoo-hoo! Sir Charles! They can't even hear me up here. (She yells) Yo, Chuck! (Growls) What is going on down there? (She attempts to open the door, but only manages to pull the handle off) Oh, come on! Hey, guys! I am locked in the tower!
Phineas: That's the spirit, Candace! You sound like a real damsel in distress!
Candace: (She growls) I have got to get out of here. (She tries to grab a spear from a knights grip) Let go! Come on, let go! Fine! Have it your way. (She picks up the armor, and smashes through the door. However, soon after the armor becomes undone, and Candace lands in it, making her look like the Black Knight)
Charles: Well, then, since you chaps are just about put together, I think it's time I popped next door to fetch my own armor.
Phineas: There's something almost disturbing about this. Hey, look. he's back.
Candace: (Grunts)
Phineas: Okay, Charles, we'll help you get on your horse and do a practice run.
Candace: (Muffled scream)
(At Evil-Con)
Doofenshmirtz: You didn't think I'd recognize you, did you? But I do! You’re Dr. Lloyd Wexler, my greatest hero in all of evil science. Oh, I can't believe I'm actually talking to you! You know, I wrote my thesis on one of your early ransom notes. Gee, you wouldn't mind if I just hung around with you today, would you?
Perry: (He blinks twice)
(At the castle)
(Horn salute)
Grandpa Fletcher: Lords and ladies of the court, I declare that this contest is to begin!
(Cheering)
Grandpa Fletcher: Are you boys ready over there?
Phineas: Ready, Ferb?
(Ferb opens a compartment in the armor to give a thumbs up)
Phineas: We're ready, Grandpa!
Grandpa Fletcher: How about you, Charles?
Candace: (Muffled screaming)
Grandpa Fletcher: That's the spirit.
(Phineas and Ferb, and Candace begin their jousting match. Candace's horse however bucks her off, sending her into a catapult)
Phineas: Look, our catapult works.
(Cadence gets launched into the castle, but falls down the tower, and back onto the horse, who, in turn, bucks her off, repeating the cycle)
Grandpa Fletcher: Way to hang in there, Charles.
(Candace's horse runs off with her on it)
Phineas: Guess we won, Ferb. Yeah!
Charles: What ho, chaps. Still up for a bit of a joust?
Stubbings: Your lance, sir.
Phineas: Charles? Then who's that?
Grandpa Fletcher: Perhaps it was the ghost of the Black Knight. But I wonder where his Hounds of Heck are.
(Instrumental version of "Ballad of the Black Knight" playing in the background)
(Candace's horse continues to run down the street, causing a gravy truck to crash, spraying her with it, while also releasing dogs from an animal control van)
Man #2: (Upon seeing this) It's the ghost of the Black Knight and his hounds of Heck!
(At Evil-Con)
Doofenshmirtz: It makes me so happy to be surrounded by so much evil. Oh, look! It's your autobiography. It’s always been a dream of mine to have you read it to me. (He pauses) Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait! (Pulls out a teddy bear) Okay, now I'm ready.
Doofenshmirtz: (laughs) Come on! Don't be shy. Paragraph 4. "Upon an evil winter's heart." Go ahead.
Perry: (reading from the book) "Upon an evil winter's heart, the heavy hand of regret infrequently alights. The malevolent path is one trod without the cumbersome shackles of sentimental introspec... spec... spec... spec... spec... spec... spec..." (He whacks the CD player with the book)
Doofenshmirtz: Hmm, that's funny. I don't remember you saying "spec" so many times. (Perry rips off his disguise) Dr. Wexler, you're a platypus. (Perry, looking annoyed, puts his fedora on. Doofenshmirtz gasps) Perry the Platypus!
Doofenshmirtz: I want to say that I knew it was you all along, but I can't because I didn't. So now, I guess I'm supposed to surrender, which I might do if we weren't standing IN THE MIDDLE OF AN EVIL WEAPONS EXPO! (He runs to the giant robots, and gets in one) Ah-ha! Perry the Platypus, your giant robot dragon is no match for my giant robot... Queen Elizabeth I. Hmmm. W- Would you mind switching robots with me? Would you mind too terribly? Please? (They switch robots) Thanks. Thank you very much. I just prefer this one. Thanks. Now, Perry the Platypus, your silly, girly Queen Elizabeth I robot is no match for my giant, fire-breathing... (Perry's robot shoots a laser blast at Doofenshmirtz) Ow! Ow! Wait! I didn't know she had laser eyes. I want to trade back. (Perry sends a punch at Doofenshmirtz) Oof! Well, yours may have laser eyes, but mine breathes (The dragon robot shoots fire from behind Doof) f- (He screams as the fire rushes past) (The dragon robot stops shooting fire) That was a stupid design.
(At the castle)
Grandpa Fletcher: Commence with round Two!
Phineas: Uh, oh! Ferb, I think we put it on sideways this time.
(The two horses crash into one another)
Grandpa Fletcher: It's a draw!
(The crowd cheers)
TV Announcer: This just in: A giant mechanical Queen Elizabeth I and a dragon are rampaging through the country engaged in an apparent duel to the death. And in other news, a new version of Jane Eyre is in the offing.
(the robots continue fighting)
Lawrence: (Reading from a newspaper inside a taxicab driving past the fight)) Good heavens, look at that! They're making a new version of Jane Eyre.
Doofenshmirtz: (Laughs) Obviously, your Queen Elizabeth I is no match for my dragon! (The Queen Elizabeth robots breaks the headlock she was in) That Queen Elizabeth is a tough old bird.
(Perry continues to wail on Doofenshmirtz, until, Doofenshmirtz accidentally pushes a button)
Computer: Thank you for pressing the self-destruct button.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, that's just great!
(He slams down on the console)
Computer: Thank you for pressing the ejection button. Remember to take a parachute with you.
Doofenshmirtz: Now you tell me!
(At the castle)
Charles: Look, everyone, it's the ghost of the Black Knight.
Phineas: I guess he's still in search of the dragon.
(The Dragon falls onto the medieval festive)
Computer: To order a parachute, please call our help desk. Self-destruct in 3, 2, 1.
(As the dragon self destructs, Candace runs into it. The resulting explosion sends Candace into the castle, then crashing back down the tower, only to be caught by Charles)
Candace: Hi, Charles.
Grandpa Fletcher: Jolly good, old bean.
Phineas: Ah! There you are, Perry.
Lawrence: Hello. we had the most amazing time. Look! I found this 19th century barometer. Anything interesting happen 'round here?
(There's silence for a moment)
Ferb: I hear there's a new version of Jane Eyre in the offing.

End Credits
(standalone broadcasts only)
(Song: "Perry the Platypus")
Male Singer: ♪ He's a semi-aquatic, egg-laying mammal of action ♪
Backing scat: ♪ Dooby dooby doo-bah ♪
♪ Dooby dooby doo-bah ♪
Male Singer: ♪ He's a furry little flatfoot, who'll never flinch from a fray........! ♪
♪ He's got more than just mad skill, ♪
Female Singer: ♪ Wah-ah-ah ♪
Male Singer: ♪ He's got a beaver tail and a bill ♪
Female Singer: ♪ Ah-ah ♪
Male Singer: ♪ And the women swoon whenever they hear him say: ♪
(Perry chatters, women faint)
Male Singer: ♪ He's Perry! Perry the Platypus! ♪



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house at night.)
Candace: But, Mom, it's true. The boys built an elevator to the moon in the backyard today.
Linda: Last time I checked, the yard was noticeably moon-elevator free.
Candace: But...
Phineas: It's true. We were up there! Ferb did the whole "one giant step" thing. Check out this moon stuff we brought back!
(trumpets playing triumphantly)
Candace: Hmm?
Lawrence: Oh. You boys are so adorable.
Candace: Ah! You don't believe it. I'm so over this.
Linda: Oh Candace, revel in your brothers' imagination. Makes life so much more fun.
Phineas: (Yawns) Pushing the boundaries of time and space sure makes a guy tired.
Linda: See? How fun is that?
Lawrence: Night, boys.
Linda: Night, mopey.
Candace: (Mimics) "See? How fun is that?" If only they'd believe me...
Lawrence: Look at this. I got a traffic ticket from that camera they installed across the street. Oh, that blasted device picks up everything on the block 24 hours a day.
Linda: Doesn't it run out of tape?
Lawrence: Oh, no. It's on a compressed CD thingamabob. It can store months of digital video.
Candace: Video.
Linda: Hon, you know we drive on the right.
(Camera pans outside to show the traffic camera)
Lawrence: Yes, yes, so you keep telling me.
Candace: Gotcha!
(Scene shifts to Phineas and Ferb's room)
(Snoring, Wristwatch communicator vibrates; ♪ Spy theme)
Major Monogram: Excellent trick, Agent P. Sorry to disturb you at this late hour, but we are about to give you the most important mission of your career. Our computer indicates that a city security camera located near your civilian hideout has recorded your comings and goings as a secret agent. It's crucial to the agency's security that you get those recordings and bring them back to HQ for special disposal.
(Scene shifts to the traffic camera)
Candace: Heeheeheehee, heeheeheehee, heeheeheehee, hehhehhehheh, heeheeheehee. (Uses a ladder and climbs up to the traffic cam, removes the disk ♪ Hums) I'm just borrowing this! ♪ La-la-la-la-la ♪
(Perry gives a rather enraged look)
(Scene then shifts to Candace's room)
Candace: (puts disk in laptop and gasps) There it is! The elevator to the moon, ha! And the time they built the rollercoaster and the beach and the roller rink! Ooooooh! (grabs pillow, laughter is muffled) Can it be? Actual proof? Everything they've done over the summer? (to Perry) Oh, Perry, it's soooooooo beautiful!
Phineas: Candace, you okay? Your muffled emotion woke us up. What'cha watchin'?
Candace: Oh, just a little summer mini-series called... "Evidence"!
Phineas: Oh, cool, our moon elevator! Mom would love this! I wonder if she's still up, let's show her!
Candace: Yes! Let's show Mom. (to Perry) Oh, Perry, Perry, Perry. I will remember this night always. Just think: on this very computer are the deliciously incriminating images from that CD I borrowed that will finally bust my brothers! (Laughs maniacally)
Linda: All right Candace, what's going on in there?
Candace: Mom, I finally got the evidence that'll prove that...
Linda: Oh! Not this again! Show me in the morning.
Phineas: How's 7:00 sound?
Linda: And you, too! Outta here!
Phineas: We're gonna pencil her in for 7:30.
Linda: 9:00.
Phineas: Make that 9:00.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
♪ After hours... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: What is it? Oh-Oh, Perry the Platypus. Uh, hold on one second What? The pressures of an evil life! I need a grind guard. Wait a minute. Why are you here? You're not due to shatter my plans till tomorrow. Oh. Come on in.
Norm: Hi. I'm Norm.
Doofenshmirtz: That's it? You just want to borrow Norm? My giant robot man? Fine. Knock yourself out. I'm going back to bed. Just so you know, he's a little low on oil. Oh, and-and, Perry the Platypus-- I don't want to see one scratch on that machine.
(Perry gives Doofenshmirtz a thumbs up and goes with Norm down the elevator)
Norm: Hi. I'm Norm. 

(Scene shifts to Candace's room)
Phineas: Hey, Candace. Ferb wants to get started on the multimedia presentation for Mom. Can we borrow the CD? (Tries grab the disk but Candace slaps his hand)
Candace: No way, Phineas. There's no way I'm lettin' this baby out of my sight. This is the single greatest moment in my life, and there is nothing you little creeps can do to take it away from me.
Norm: Hello, children. I'll take that. My name is Norm.
Candace: What was...that?
Phineas: I don't know, but it was cool.
Linda: Keep it down!
Candace: So...you guys didn't make that?
Phineas: No, but I want one.
Candace: But that thing ran off with my disk! My evidence!
Phineas: Don't worry, Candace. We'll help you get it back.
Candace: You guys would help me bust you?
Phineas: Sure, if it'll make ya happy. Plus, battling a giant robot, how cool is that?
Candace: Excellent!
Phineas: Let's go kick some robot heinie!
(Scene shifts to Norm)
Norm: What a lovely evening.
Candace: There he is!
Norm: Uh-oh. We need to get the lead out. Switching to hyper-transportation mode.
(Rockets causes Norm to pull away from the three)
Phineas: We're gonna need a faster bike.

(Scene shifts to the O.W.C.A. HQ)
Major Monogram: Any word from Agent P?
Carl: No, sir.
Major Monogram: So I guess all we can do is wait.
Carl: And hope, sir.
Major Monogram: And hope.
Carl: And also wait.
Major Monogram: I already did "wait," Carl.
Carl: Did we do "hope"?
Major Monogram: Ugh. I didn't become a major so I could sweat out a vaudeville routine with an intern.
Carl: Of course not, sir.
Major Monogram: So, does anyone know any good songs? How about you, Agent D?
(Agent D barks)
Major Monogram: Agent C?
(Agent C clucking)
Major Monogram: Carl, remind me again why all the agents are animals.
(Scene shifts back to Norm)
Female computerized voice: Estimated time to destination, 3.05 minutes.
Norm: We'll be there in no time!
Female computerized voice: Warning: Oil level low.
Norm: I could sure use an oily beverage.
(Norm stops at a gas station and Perry gives a clerk some money before taking all the oil cans)

(Song: "And the Animals Go")
Major Monogram: ♪ And the kitty goes: (Meow) ♪
♪ And the owl goes: (Hoot) ♪
♪ And the doggy goes: (Bark) ♪
♪ And the turkey goes: ♪
♪ And the turkey goes? ♪
Carl: Ahem. Sir, we lost Agent T last November.
Major Monogram: Oooh! Right. (clears throat)
♪ And that's how the animals go, go, go, ♪
♪ And that's how the animals go ♪
Okay, everyone, one more time with feeling. (Agent C clucks)

Phineas: Good thing we had this extra rocket engine, huh?
Norm: Whoop. Here we go again. Uh-oh. (Oil leaking) Someone forgot to replace the oil cap. (Jet rockets break) I guess I'm walking. (He walks over a draw bridge which lifts up with Norm in the middle of the opening)
Candace: (Screams)
Phineas: Go get him, Ferb!
Norm: Hey, kids, this is not a gymnasium! (He shakes Ferb off and the draw bridge opens completely. Norm hangs by his legs on both sides of the open drawbridge) Boy, I'm sure in a pickle.
(Phineas grabs Norm's wallet and takes out the DVD)
Candace: Whoo-hoo!
Norm: Perhaps I should've worn cleats.
(Norm falls off the bridge causing Phineas to be launched in the air dropping the disk and dangling for his life on the bridge)
Phineas: Candace, help! The oil! I-I'm slipping!
Candace: I'm coming! Hold on, Phineas!
Phineas: Candace!
Candace: (sighs)
Phineas: But, Candace, the disk. You didn't save it.
Candace: What? And let you fall? You may be a pain, but you are my brother. (She and Phineas hug) Besides, I still have that big rocket for evidence. What happened to the rocket? (Rocket explodes)
Phineas: Hmm. Good thing we got off of that, huh?
(Ferb arrives on a helicopter)
Candace/Phineas: All right, Ferb! You got the disk!
Candace: Cool!
Phineas: All right! (Ferb flies off)
Candace: Ferb? Ferb, where you going?
Phineas: Ferb?
(Ferb, covered in oil, slides down the opened drawbridge)
Ferb: What did I miss?
Candace: Huh?
Phineas: Well, that was almost weirder than the giant robot.
(Perry reveals himself in the Ferb costume; as he flies off in the helicopter)

♪ Perry! ♪
(Scene shifts to the O.W.C.A. HQ)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P, I trusted that your mission was a complete success. Good work! Now, hand it over for the special disposal procedure. Careful, now. Careful.
(Carl puts on gloves, grabs the DVD and simply throws it in a trash can)
Carl: Got it.
(Perry makes a weird confusing expression)
Major Monogram: Agent P, you've saved this organization. If there's anything we can do for you in return, don't hesitate.

(The following morning....)
Lawrence: Oh, I can't believe it! It seems my video traffic ticket's been cleared. I guess there is someone up there looking out for me.
(Perry chatters)

(Scene shifts back to the O.W.C.A. HQ)
Major Monogram: ♪ Oh, the chicken goes: (Bawk) ♪
♪ And the dog goes: (Woof) ♪
♪ And the worm goes: ♪
Outstanding, Agent W!
(Agent C pecks at Agent W)
Major Monogram: Agent C, don't do that.
♪ And the new guy goes: ♪
Norm: I'm Norm.
Major Monogram: (after a pause) You know, Carl, it's weird that he is not an animal. (Pauses) We should fire him.
Carl: I'm already on it, sir.



(Scene opens up showing a diagonal view of the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Candace: (On her cell phone, in her room) Oh, my gosh, Stacy! Oh, my gosh! Oh, my gosh! Oh, my gosh! Jeremy asked me if I could meet him at the fair later today next to the Ferris wheel. Oh, no! I almost forgot I'm scared of heights! What am I going to do?
Linda: (Calling from downstairs) Candace, we're leaving now!
Candace: Mom, I'm having a teenage crisis!
Linda: Don't forget we're going bowling. We need you to keep an eye on the boys.
Lawrence: Preferably two.
Phineas: Bowling? That sounds fun. Hey, Dad, is it alright if we use that old lawn-bowling set?
Lawrence: Sure thing, boys! Knock yourselves out.
Linda: Toodles!
(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Phineas: You know, Ferb, with a few modifications, we could really zip up this old lawn-bowling set.
Baljeet: Hello, Phineas. What'you doing? Ooh! I just sounded like Isabella.
Phineas: We're gonna build the world's biggest and best bowling-ball game!
Baljeet: Well, according to The Most Pointless Book of World Records... (♪ Fanfare) ...the world's largest bowling ball is four feet in diameter.
Phineas: Four feet? Ferb, we could beat that record in our sleep.
Baljeet: You know, the officials from The Most Pointless Book of World Records... (♪ Fanfare) ...will be at the fair today at 3:00, handing out awards.
Phineas: Ferb, get the tools. We've got a record to shatter.
Baljeet: And then you will be in the next volume! (♪ Fanfare) (to Buford) Is that absolutely necessary?
Buford: Why? Does it bug ya?
Baljeet: Well, yes, a little.
Buford: Then, yeah, it's necessary.
Baljeet: All right. Fair enough. Hey, where is Perry?
(♪ Fanfare)

♪ Perry the Platypus! ♪
(Perry falls out of a tube with a missing part that Carl's been fixing)
Carl: Ooh, sorry about that, Agent P.
♪ Herman the Hedgehog! ♪
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. We've tracked Doofenshmirtz to an old abandoned warehouse, and he's made some suspicious purchases, 10,000 packets of powdered hot chocolate, a hotdog vendor's cart, a medium-sized parka, and a pair of red flannel long johns with a flap in the back. Don't ask us how we know. Get out there and kick some Doofen-butt.

(Montage of Phineas and Ferb building a gigantic bowling ball. Phineas and Ferb are shown sleeping)
Baljeet: Wow! That is one big bowling ball.
Phineas: Hey, look at that, Ferb! Told you we could do it in our sleep.
(Scene shifts to Candace's room)
Candace: So, what do you think I should wear to the fair tonight? I'm thinking my favorite red blouse with my white skirt and red matching socks.
(Bowling pins crashing)
Candace: Stacy, I'm gonna have to call you back.
(In the backyard, the set of bowling pins crash again. Baljeet and Buford cheer)
Phineas: That was amazing!
Isabella: Wow, Phineas! Another strike!
Phineas: That makes four in a row! In your face, Buford!
Baljeet: Ha ha! Yes! What he said! In da face! (Laughs) Uh-uh, I mean... You will get him next time. Clearly.
Phineas: Ferb, did you get that strike?
(Ferb gives a thumb up then pushes the "Reset" button)

Phineas: Who's next?
Candace: Phineas, just what do you think you're doing out here?
Phineas: Candace, you're just in time. It's your turn.
Candace: Just wait until Mom hears about... Then again, you guys always seem to make everything disappear before Mom gets home. But if I take the evidence to her at the Bowl-A-Rama, then she'll have to believe me!

(Candace daydreams)
Linda: Oh, Candace, you were right about Phineas and Ferb this whole time. We should've believed you.
Lawrence: And just to express how sorry we are, here's my credit card. You have our permission to ruin us financially.
Jeremy: Candace, that is so cool how you busted your brothers like that! Will you marry me?
(Daydream ends)

Phineas: So, you wanna give it a try?
Candace: I do, Jeremy, I mean, uh... I'd love to give it a try!
Phineas: All right. I'll show you how it works.

(Candace and Phineas inside of the giant bowling ball)
Phineas: Well, first of all, the cockpit's on a gyroscope so it stays level. Here's your monitor, and this is the trackball you use to steer. Now, no matter what, never hit the gyro stabilizer lock button! It'll disable the gyroscope, and you'll spin around like a greased pig on roller skates.
Candace: Yeah, yeah, use the trackball. Don't hit the button. I got it!
Phineas: All right. You seem to know what you're doing.
Candace: Do I ever? This is a piece of cake. Bowl-R-Ama, here I come!
Phineas: Okay, Candace, try to take it slow at first!
(The ball takes off at warp speed)
Candace: (laughs hysterically as she controls the ball)
(The ball hits the pins)
Phineas: Way to go, Candace!
(The ball rolls over Ferb's table and away)
Where's she going? She's freestylin'! We've gotta follow her and see what she does! Let's go, team!

♪ Doofenshmirtz Abandoned Self Storage! ♪
(Perry swings into the abandoned self storage via grappling hook. After landing on a metallic ledge, he looks around suspiciously, only to end up getting frozen by a giant robotic penguin.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus. Right on time. It seems like you've got quite a chill there! I want you to meet my latest creation: the Giant Robotic Penguin Icy-Freeze-Your-Socks-Off Breath-inator...thingy! First, I will unleash my giant penguins at the fair today, so they may begin freezing the entire city! Then I will sell all the citizens of Danville my organic, yet highly addictive, Doof brand hot chocolate. Because, you know, who doesn't enjoy a nice cup of hot chocolate when it's so cold out? The first cup will be free, of course. But then the second...will also be free. But then the third...will cost a million dollars! That way, I only have to sell three, and I will already be a millionaire. So, Perry the Platypus, as they say in Mexico, dos svidanya! Down there, that's two vidanyas.
(Scene shifts to the street)
Phineas: She's headed for the Bowl-A-Rama!
Candace: (laughs hysterically)
Linda: You know, dear, Candace hasn't called.
Lawrence: Oh, don't worry. I'm sure the kids are having a ball.
(The ball hits a car and bounces away)
Phineas: Ooh! That's gotta hurt.
(The ball rolls through a construction sight, inside, the trackball comes loose)
Candace: Oh, no!
(The ball falls down a hole and goes through a pipe)
Phineas: So where does this lead?
Construction Worker: Huh. Heck if I know.
Phineas: Ferb, the map of Danville's underground. (Ferb pulls out aforesaid map) Looks like she's headed downtown.
Candace: Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop!
'(The ball stops on a railroad)
(Sighs) Oh, good, it stopped! (Eyes widen) WAIT... (Notices a train coming via monitor) Go, go, go, go, go!
(The train hits the ball, it rolls down the railroad and through a station)
Barry: That's one big bowling ball, Bob.
Bob: You betcha, Barry.
Phineas: Here she comes!
Buford/Baljeet: Go, Candace!
Buford: There she goes.
Phineas: All right, guys! To Seventh Street!

(Scene shifts to the abandoned self storage. Perry frees himself from the ice trap by using a mug of hot chocolate. He then leaves using his grappling hook.)

(Scene shifts to the subway entrance.)
Baljeet: Candace! You can do it! Go, Candace!
Isabella: Go! Go! Go!
(Dinging)
Phineas: Hey, Baljeet, what's the world record for the largest pinball machine?
Baljeet: I am not sure, but I know we can beat it.
Phineas: Okay, everybody, split up and let's keep her in play until we get to the fair.
(Song: "Pin-bowlin'")
♪ Pin, pin, pin, pin-bowlin' along ♪
♪ Doo doo doo doo, doo-doo, doo-doo-doo-doo-doo ♪
♪ Yeah! ♪
♪ Pin, pin, pin, pin-bowlin' along ♪
Candace: AAAAAAAAAH!
♪ Doo doo doo doo, doo-doo, doo-doo-doo-doo ♪
♪ Put your quarter in and take me for a spin ♪
♪ But you gotta pull the lever back before we begin ♪
♪ We'll take the trip for two around the table ♪
♪ Before we drop... ♪
Candace: I'm out of control!
♪ Keep your fingers on the flippers and your eye on the ball ♪
♪ We'll be bouncing off the bumpers ♪
♪ And bangin' off the walls ♪
♪ Gonna run the score up so high
♪ You'd think your ears are gonna pop ♪
♪ And we ain't never gonna tilt ♪
♪ 'Cause, baby, that's not the way we will ♪
Phineas: Woo-hoo!
♪ We're gonna pin, pin, pin, pin-bowlin' along ♪
♪ Doo doo doo doo, doo-doo, doo-doo-doo-doo-doo ♪
♪ Pin, pin, pin, pin-bowlin' along
Candace: AAAAAAAAAAAH! HELP!
♪ Pin-bowlin' along (X2) ♪
♪ Doo doo doo doo, doo-doo, doo-doo-doo-doo-doo ♪
♪ Pin-bowlin' ♪
♪ Yeah! ♪
Phineas: Way to keep it goin', Ferb.
(Scene shifts to the Knock 'Em Down stand at the fair)
Man: Oop, better luck next time, little man. (to Isabella) Isabella, darlin'!
Isabella: Set me up, Shady Joe. I'm feelin' lucky.
Shady Joe: Oh! That's my girl! You give it your best shot.
(Bowling ball rumbling; Sound of pins crashing into the stand)
Shady Joe: Help yourself, anything from the top shelf.
(Last few items drop)
Announcer: Welcome, Danvillians, to the World's Most Pointless Records Awards! Let's meet some of our record holders. Here we have Cletus with the world's hairiest pig. Next to him is Margaret with the world's stinkiest cheese. And finally, we got little Timmy holding the world's fattest gerbil. Let's have a big round of applause for the most pointless world-record winners!
(Scattered applause)
Phineas: Wait! We've got two more World's Most Pointless Records for our own!
Announcer: Well, then, step right up, sonny, and tell everybody what they are.
Phineas: Our first entry is for the world's largest bowling ball, and the other is for the world's largest game of pinball!
Announcer: Wow! Well, let's see 'em!
Ferb: Wait for it.
(Dinging)
Announcer: Looks like we have two more World's Most Pointless Records! (Gasps) Wait, two records in one day? That's another world record!

Doofenshmirtz: To the fair, my pets, where the freezing of the Tri-State Area will begin! (Later notices the bowling ball) Wait. Wait, what is that? A giant bowling ball? AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH!
Candace: AAAAAAAAAAAAH! (Eventually lands next to Jeremy on the Ferris wheel)
Jeremy: Oh, Candace, you made it. I was thinking you weren't gonna show. Although, you know, usually we get on at the bottom.
Candace: (Giggles)
Phineas: (On microphone) We'd especially like to thank our sister, Candace. We couldn't have done it without you, sis!
Jeremy: You know, your brothers are all right. Hey, are you okay? (Candace points to the ground) Oh, afraid of heights. Don't worry, I got ya.
Phineas: How about you, Perry? Is there anything you'd like to add?
(Perry chatters)

End Credits
Shady Joe: Step right up, ladies and gentlemen, step right up! It's only a dollar to see the mysterious Penguin-Man. Is he man? Is he penguin? Or perhaps some logic-defying amalgam of man and penguin? A manguin, if you will.
Doofenshmirtz: I used to have goals. They were evil goals, but they were goals.



(Scene opens up inside the garage at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Buford: Prepare to feel the wrath of Buford.
Isabella: Don't bring that smack-talk around here. This is my house!
Phineas: Technically, this is our garage.
Ferb: She's on a roll.
Buford: No girl has ever beaten Buford. Watch and learn. It takes a highly trained eye and a quick wrist to...
(Isabella scores)
Isabella: To score like that, Buford?
Buford: (Recovers from initial shock) Hey! I wasn't ready.

(In Candace's room)
Candace: Stacy, what am I going to do? Jeremy's coming over to take my picture for his photo class.
Stacy: So, what's the...? (notices Candace's hair) Oh!
Candace: (reveals her hair is messed up) Yeah, you think he'll notice? This is the worst bad hair day ever! I'm officially freaking out! (picks up her cell phone) I'll call and cancel.
Stacy: No, wait! Just wear a hat.
Candace: Yeah! A hat! ..... How's this?
Stacy: Well, your hair looks better.
Candace: Yeah, but the strap is cutting off my... (the hat rips off) I'm gonna need something stronger.

(Inside the garage)
Buford: Alright! This is the tie-breaker.
Isabella: I thought the last two were.
Buford: Nah. It's this one.
Isabella: Tell you what I'm going to do, Buford. I'm going take this ball and I'm going hit into your goal in one shot.
Buford: Oh, is that right?
Isabella: Absolutely, and you want to know the funny part? There's nothing you can do about it!
Buford: Bring it!
Buford: (Laughs) You missed.
Isabella: Wait for it.

(In Candace's room)
Candace: What about this?

(Inside the garage)
Isabella: Ain't that how it works, Buford?
Phineas: Wow. Nice foosing, Isabella.
Isabella: Thanks.
(Candace appears)
Candace: You guys are making such a racket that I can't focus. I need time to fix my hair. 'Cause when Jeremy gets here, I don't wanna be wearing this stupid--
Jeremy: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Hello, Jeremy. Ha.
Jeremy: You look sporty.
Candace: Oh, you like it?
Jeremy: Well, that's perfect. (holds up a camera) The sport shoot.
Buford: Well, that didn't really count, 'cause it's just a dainty little girls' game.
Isabella: It could be the biggest game in the world, and girls could still beat boys. (pauses) Biggest game in the world. Did you get that, Phineas?
Phineas: Yeah, we're on it. (at Ferb) Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today.
Buford: Great. It's boys against girls. And to give ya a fair shot, I'll even take Shrimpy here.
Baljeet: I am honored.
Buford: So, who's on your team?
Isabella: Candace, can you be on the girls' team with me?
Candace: Isabella, I'm a little busy right--
Jeremy: Perfect. Real action shots. Oh, you'll look great.
Candace: Really? OK, I'm in.
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?

(Inside the Flynn-Fletcher house)
(Perry walks to the bookshelf and then puts on his fedora. He then presses a button revealing an entrance with caution tape and a note from Monogram saying it's out of order and to use an alternate entrance. He holds the note, looks at the camera with a raised eyebrow, and then walks away. Scene switches to a door, which Perry opens. The camera pans down to show the stairs.)
(In Perry's lair)
(♪ Perry's theme, slow mo) ♪ Doobie doobie doo-wah... ♪
Major Monogram: There you are, Agent P. Sorry about the stairs, our elevator maintenance guy is on a corporate retreat with our slide-waxing guy. Anyway, our intelligence tells us that Doofenshmirtz has been shopping around for a show dog. We need you to infiltrate the pet store and uncover his evil plan. Me, I'm goin' home early. It's taco night. Ha-ha.
(♪ mariachi)
♪ Agent P! ♪
(Perry looks up at the stairs then sighs wearily)

(In a locker room at the F-Games stadium)
Phineas: So those are the official rules for the F-Games. Any questions?
Buford: Yeah. Why are they called the F-Games?
Isabella: Yeah.
Candace: Yeah, why is that?
Phineas: "F" for Ferb.
All: (gasp) Ohh.
Baljeet: I, too, have a question. If I miss the third shuttlecock with my rubber chicken, does Buford have to jump over the chokecherry bush before or after the girls finish peeling their tangerines?
All but Baljeet: After!!
Buford: Aw, man, pay attention. You're embarrassing me.
Phineas: All right, then let's get out there.
(crowd cheering)
Buford: Wow, definitely big.
(Song: "F-Games")
♪ Na-na na-na na, na-na na-na na ♪
♪ Na-na na-na na na na na-na na ♪
♪ Na-na na-na na, na-na na-na na ♪
♪ Na-na na-na na na na na-na na ♪
♪ Don't wanna hear no smack talk ♪
♪ You wanna call your mama, here's a dime ♪
♪ It's time to walk the walk-walk ♪
♪ You gotta rapid skate, get on the line ♪
♪ So get your game on, or else it's shame on you ♪
♪ Gimme an "F" ♪
♪ F! ♪
♪ Gimme an "F, ♪
♪ F-Games ♪
♪ Are you a contender? ♪
♪ Gimme an "F" ♪
♪ F! ♪
♪ Gimme an "F," ♪
♪ F-Games ♪
♪ In the battle of the genders! ♪
♪ Na-na na-na na, na-na na-na na ♪
♪ Yeah... ♪
♪ Na-na na-na na ♪
♪ Na-na na-na na, na-na na-na na ♪
♪ F-Games... ♪
♪ Na-na na-na na na na na-na na ♪
Phineas: Ooh. Extra points for recycling. The girls' score is now the square root of pi, while the boys still have a crudely drawn picture of a duck. Clearly, it's still anyone's game.

(Scene switches to the pet shop, My Little Doggies)
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, I'm looking for a purebred show dog.
Shop owner: Well, we have various award-winning breeds to choose from.
Doofenshmirtz: Ooh, what about him?
(Camera pans to Perry, in pet mode, disguised as a dog)
Doofenshimrtz: Oh, he's perfect. Oh, yes. Coochie-coochie-coo. You are Doctor D's precious little puppy, aren't you?
Shop owner: Sir, I'm not even sure if that's a dog.
Doofenshmirtz: Don't try to wheel and deal with me. I get a big alimony check every month, so money's no object.
Shop owner: Oh; well, in that case, he's ten thousand dollars.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, coochie-coochie. You are my little coochie-coochie. You are my ticket into the Danville Dog Show, and together, we will make them pay for all I have suffered.
(flashback)
Back when I was just a little schtumpel, my father came home with a brand-new spitzenhound puppy that he won in a game of Poke the Goozim With a Stick. (Goozim roars) My father said the dog was like the son he never had and named him Only Son. Only Son became an award-winning show dog, bringing my father fame and fortune, while I was forced to be the lawn gnome. Y-You remember that story, right, with my neighbor, Kenny? I don't have to go through - OK.
(flashback ends)
So, to recap, my entire fragile self-esteem is totally dependent on your performance today at the dog show, but, you know, no pressure.
(At the dog show)
Doofenshmirtz: And don't worry about your lack of training and experience, because I have an ace in the hole. .... This - the Misbehav-inator. It, uh, well, it does what the name implies. Watch this. (dog yips) Ha-ha-ha. Bad dog! (dog barks) Ah, nothing can stop us now. Hee-hee-hee-hee. (gasps) Aah! Hey, what was all that about?
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? Uh, ha-ha, now I'm very embarrassed about all that "coochie-coochie-coo" stuff. Wait, wait. Where are you going? Bring back my Misbehav-inator!

(At the F-Games stadium)
Phineas: And now for the tiebreaker event. Giant foosball. Get ready to foos.
Buford: This is so my game.
Baljeet: But didn't Isabella beat you at this earlier?
Buford: Quiet, you!
Isabella: Ready, Candace?
Candace: I feel like a kebab.
Baljeet: I, too, feel a certain element of kebabism.
Buford: I said quiet, you. Let's play.
Phineas: There's the first ball.
Baljeet: I feel this may not be the best way to block a shot. Clearly I was - Clearly I was wrong about that. That was most effective. Aah!
Candace: What?
Phineas: Candace blocks. The ball is up...
Jeremy: Candace.
Candace: (giggles)
Phineas: ..it's going...it's going... It's going!...
Baljeet: Oh, my. Ohh!
Candace: Aah! Ohh! Isabella, I have feet too, you know.
Isabella: Sorry, Candace.
Baljeet: Aaaah! Suddenly I am not feeling so fresh.
Phineas: Looks like we've reached the all-important fruit level!
Candace: The what? (Watermelon destroys her helmet. Buford laughs and ends up with a fruit in his mouth. Ferb continues to shoot fruit everywhere.)
Phineas: It looks like the final ball is drifting lazily into neutral territory. Folks, we may be looking at a draw.
Buford: Oh, no, we're not.
Baljeet: Buford, no! That would be cheating.
Buford: Heh-heh-heh-heh. Boys rule!
Candace: Aah, my hair! Jeremy's gonna see my hair!
(Isabella spins Candace; ball whistling. Ball ricochets off Candace flying towards Buford) Buford: Uh-oh. (Ball hits his stomach, which goes flying and ends up crashing the wall of the territory) WHOOOH!
Phineas: They've done it! The girls have snatched victory from the jaws of defeat!
♪ She's Candace! ♪
Jeremy: Wow, Candace, your hair looks great.
Candace: (giggles) Really?

(Scene switches to the roof of a building)
(♪ Perry's theme)

(In the backyard)
Isabella: Well, Buford, that was a great game. Come on, be a good sport.
Buford: Like I said before, losing to a girl doesn't count. (gets zapped by Doofenshmirtz's -inator) What I meant to say was I had a wonderful time. I guess you were right. Girls are just as good as boys. Thanks again. Woo-hoo! The F-Games rock.
Ferb: That was completely out of character.

(yowls)
(tires squeal)
Man: T minus 3, 2, 1.

(In the backyard)
Isabella: Thanks, guys. It was a lot of fun.
Phineas: The next F-Games will be even better.
Candace: Yeah, but much better is when Mom sees this. Look at that thing. I'd just like to see you try to get rid of that before Mom ---
(The rocket picks up the stadium and flies it out of sight; Linda makes her perfectly timed entrance)
Linda: Hey, kids! What's new?
Candace: Nothing, Mom. Absolutely nothing is new.
Linda: (Feeling Candace's hair) Well, your hair sure looks new. I like it.
Candace: Thanks. It took a lot to get it this way.
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Candace: Isn't today great? Today is such a great day! Everything is so great!
Linda: My, Candace, what's got you in such a good mood?
Candace: Jeremy asked me to go play croquet with him in the park!
Lawrence: Okay, well, be sure to be home in time for the barbecue. We're gonna be watching Kermillian's Comet fly past the Earth.
Phineas: A comet? Cool!
Lawrence: It only comes around every seventy three and a half years.
Linda: We'll be barbecuing steaks for the whole neighborhood! Why don't you bring Jeremy?
Candace: You had me at "steaks"!
Phineas: Why is it called Kermillian's Comet, Dad?
Lawrence: Kermillian's Comet was named after an ancient Danville astronomer, Augustus Kermillian, who discovered the comet.
Linda: It's also been said that if you wish on a comet, your wish will come true.
Phineas: Wow! Come on, Ferb. I know what we're gonna do today!
Lawrence: By the way, where is Perry?
Major Monogram: (Talking throughout the Flynn-Fletcher's television set) Agent P, (Perry puts on his fedora) Sorry to disturb you, but we have an emergency. We've just been informed that all steaks in the Tri-State area have disappeared. This has Doofenshmirtz written all over it. Go lay your smack-down on him, Agent P. The fate of the world rests entirely in your hands.
Lawrence: (Walking into the living room) What, the fate of the world?
Major Monogram: Uh, welcome to our telethon. If you're just joining us, your dollars are helping us to find a cure for, um... antidisestablishmentarianism.
Lawrence: Goodness me, that sounds dreadful!
Major Monogram: Oh, it is. It, um, makes you look pale and weak, (He shows Carl) like this young lad.
Lawrence: Oh dear, the poor thing. Look at that. Wait a minute. Antidisestablishmentarianism? That's more of an ideological stance than a disease. Isn't it?
Major Monogram: Uh, well, look at that. (He hides Carl) Seems they just found a cure. Thanks to all the viewers who donated. Bye now.
(Monogram cuts the feed)
Linda: Honey, you ready to go?
Lawrence: Yeah, sure. Hey, did you know they've just found a cure for antidisestablishmentarianism?
Linda: Great. I can finally take off this puce ribbon.
(At the park)
(Song: "Candace (Who's That Girl)")
♪ La-la-la-la-la-la ♪
♪ La-la-la-la-la-la ♪
Jeremy: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Hi, Jeremy!
Jeremy: You remember my little sister Suzy.
Candace: But I thought it was just going to be us.
Jeremy: Well, my folks asked me to keep an eye on Suzy for the afternoon. Who's my favorite girl?
Suzy: I am, I am! (She giggles) Would you show me how to play croquet?
Jeremy: Sure thing, kiddo.
Candace: Is this pie homemade?
Jeremy: Yeah, my Mom made it. I'll go get some plates out of the picnic basket.
Candace:Well, tell her that it's just– (Suzy hits a croquet ball into the pie, shoving it in Candace's face)
Jeremy: Candace, what happened?
Candace: I don't know.
Jeremy: Wait here. I'll go get a towel.
Suzy: So we meet again, Candace Flynn. There's only room for one girl in Jeremy's life, and that is me. And here he comes now. ... Jeremy!
Jeremy: Here's the towel.
Candace: Sorry about the pie, Jeremy. I–I don't know what happened.
Jeremy: Oh, that's okay. You want a soda?
Candace: Yeah, that'd be great.
Suzy: Here, take mine.
Candace: Oh, thank you. That was really– (She opens can and gets sprayed by the soda)
Jeremy: Candace, there's some street performers over there that– I'll go get another towel.
Phineas: These are the blueprints for our giant observatory, Ferb. First thing we need is a lens.
(As Phineas and Ferb build their observatory to the tune of "Quirky Worky Song")
(A laser goes off, and cuts some of Phineas's hair)
Phineas: Cool. Hey, Ferb, new hairdo. Check it out.
(Montage ends)
Isabella: Hey, Phineas. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Ferb and I are building a giant observatory to watch Kermillian's Comet tonight.
Isabella: Ooh, that sounds like fun.
Phineas: We're gonna put on a laser light show and, as a grand finale, we're gonna laser our faces into the comet. That way, when it comes back in seventy-three and a half years, we can all show our grandchildren. Oh, yeah, my parents are cooking steaks for everyone.
Isabella: You had me at "our grandchildren."
(A record scratches)
Phineas: What?!
Isabella: STEAKS! You– you had me at "steaks."
(Shopping for steaks)
Linda: Okay, we need to get ten t-bones... No steaks? Oh, dear. Let's try uptown.
Jeremy: So, you wanna see those street performers?
Candace: Sure.
Jeremy: I'm gonna go grab some snacks. I'll meet you over there.
Candace: Okay. Come on, Suzy. Let's go... Suzy? Suzy?
Elderly lady: (Feeding squirrels) Here you go. There's plenty for everyone. (to Suzy) Well, hello there, little girl.
Suzy: Hello. Could I have some nuts to feed the squirrels?
Elderly lady: I'd love to, but I only have one left.
Suzy: (yelling) Gimme the nut!
The lady screams and whimpers as Suzy picks up the nut she dropped in fright)
Suzy: Thank you.
Candace: Suzy? Suzy? Where are you?
(Suzy shows the nuts to two squirrels, then knocks it into Candace's pants)
(Candace screams)
(Song: "S.I.M.P. (Squirrels In My Pants)")
♪ Now somebody, anybody, everybody scream ♪
Candace: Aaaah! There are squirrels in my pants!
Street Performer 1: That girl's got some serious squirrels in her pants.
Candace: There are squirrels in my pants!
♪ Tell me what's makin' you jump like that ♪
♪ S-I-M-P, squirrels in my pants ♪
♪ Ain't got no chickens, ain't got no rats ♪
♪ S-I-M-P, squirrels in my pants. ♪
♪ S to the I to the M to the P ♪
♪ Then maybe you can be movin' like me ♪
♪ Step right over and watch me put it down ♪
Candace: Squirrels! Squirrels!
♪ Step right over and watch me put a... ♪
♪ S to the I to the M to the P ♪
♪ Who ya got back home watering your plants? ♪
♪ S-I-M-P, squirrels in my pants ♪
♪ How can I qualify for government grants? ♪
♪ S-I-M-P, squirrels in my pants ♪
♪ Yeah... Hypnotize me, put me in a trance ♪
♪ S-I-M-P, squirrels in my pants ♪
♪ Get an Aunt Florence living in France... ♪
♪ She can't see the ♪
Candace: Squirrels in my pants!
♪ Step right over and watch me put it down ♪
Candace: Squirrels! Squirrels!
♪ Step right over and watch me put it... ♪
♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
(Candace screams and collapses, and the squirrels exit her pants)
(Candace screams)
Street Performer 1: Wow, she had actual squirrels in her pants.
Street Performer 2: We just got served.
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: One moment, please. ... (Doofenshmirtz comes out wearing two steaks as glasses) Perry the Platypus? What are you looking at? ... Oh, these. Yes, these are my latest invention - steak specs. I came up with the idea after your last little visit. (Doofenshmirtz shows Perry his black eye) With these on, you don't have to constantly hold a piece of steak to your black eye. See? See?... I plan on mass-producing these. I'll make millions. Let me show you. (He shows Perry a containment unit for all the steaks) I've stolen all the steaks in the Tri-State Area, and I keep them here in my steak containment unit or SCU (Pronounced skʰʌ), for short, or maybe it should be SCU (Pronounced skʰu). ... I'm a little on the fence about - Wait. What are you doing? (Perry pulls down a she, revealing an -inator) Oh, that? That's just a giant heat ray in case I want to do something evil later.
Jeremy: Why don't you stay here with Suzy, and I'll go buy you some ice cream?
Candace: No, no, no. You stay here, I'll go buy the ice cream.
(Suzy hits a croquet ball under Candace's feet, making her fall into the ice-cream vendor's cart, and then having that role down a set of stairs)
Street Performer 2: (Watching) Oh, man, we got served again.
Street Performer 1: I'm goin' back to culinary school.
(Candace runs over a mine and crashes into a tree, where a few squirrels fall into the cart with her)
Jeremy: Candace?
Candace: (Returning) Here you go. All they had was fudgie bars.
Jeremy: Candace, what happened?
Candace: There were so many of 'em. The horror, the horror.
Jeremy: Maybe you should sit down. So what happened again?
Suzy: Are you okay? I have something that will make you smile. I want you to meet Mr. Chippy. (pulls a squirrel from behind her back)
(Candace and the squirrel scream at each other)
Candace: Get that sick creature away from me!
Jeremy: Candace, it's okay. It's just a squirrel.
Candace: That's not the one I'm talking about.
(Candace runs away)
Jeremy: What happened to her?
Suzy: (While petting the squirrel) I don't know, but these violent mood swings are probably a sign of deeper emotional imbalance.
Jeremy: What?
Suzy: Heh-heh-heh. Bubbles. Hee-hee.
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Observa-Ferb-atory. Step this way, please. Single-file line. The laser show will begin momentarily. Please, no flash photography or cell phones. Thank you. (To Ferb) All right, Ferb, that's everyone. Kill the lights. Space - it's really big. It's filled with planets of all shapes and sizes and millions of shiny stars. Space has also got huge comets soaring through it, including one named after the ancient Danville astronomer Kermillian.
Candace: (Arriving home, and seeing the observatory) What's going on? ... Phineas.
Phineas: And now, behold - Kermillian's Comet. ... Commence laser-engraving sequence.
(The laser engrave's Phineas and Ferb's faces onto the comet)
Candace: Phineas, you guys put your face on a comet? Ooh, I'm telling Mom.
Phineas: Good idea, Candace. She's gonna love it.
Doofenshmirtz: Wait. You're not trying to hack into the ray-gun system, are you? Wait, what am I worried about? You'll never guess my super-secret password.
Heat laser: "Doofalicious". Access granted.
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, that's enough.
(Perry flipps doofenshmirtz onto a large, red button)
Heat laser: Overload.
Doofenshmirtz: (He groans) This should be fun.
(The ray-gun begins firing wildly)
Kids: Ooh, wow.
Phineas: Ferb, take it easy with the lasers. Remember, we still got an 8:30 show. Can I have everyone's attention? Please don't panic. We're experiencing technical difficulties. Calmly head towards the exits in a calm, orderly– (A large piece of rubble lands near Phineas) Okay, now you can panic.
(Everyone screams and runs out)
(One final super-charged beam hits the observatory)
Phineas: Ferb, what's happening? (The observatory explodes) That was so cool.
(The crowd cheers)
Doofenshmirtz:  (A beam from the heat ray focuses on the Steak Containment Unit) Not the SCU! (Pronounced skʰʌ)  Now that I'm looking at the sign, I think it really does look more like SCU (Pronounced skʰu). ... Not the SCU! Come back here! Perry the Platypus, come back. Ooh, something smells delicious. (The top of Doofenshmirtz's building explodes sending steaks flying) Curse you, Perry the Platypus.
Linda: (Arriving home) I can't believe we drove around the whole city and couldn't find one steak.
Candace: Mom, they used a laser to carve their faces in the comet.
Lawrence: Candace, I don't see anything.
Candace: No, no, no.You could only see it from their observatory. Come on, come on. See?
(Candace walks into the backyard and stares deadpanned. Linda and Lawrence walk in as well)
Lawrence: Well, I don't see an observatory.
Linda: Sorry, everyone! We looked all over town, and we couldn't find any steaks.
(Everyone is disappointed)
Buford: Oh, man. I even brought my own plate!
Lawrence: At least we can all enjoy Kermillian's Comet together.
Phineas: Yeah, before it disappears for another seventy three and a half years.
Candace: (runs up to them) Just wait! When I'm eighty-eight, you will be so busted! (runs off)
Ferb: Actually, you'd be eighty-eight and a half.
Candace: (offscreen) Whatever!
Lawrence: So, honey, make a wish.
Linda: I wish we had steaks.
Buford: Yeah, me too.
(Cooked steaks from Doofenshmirtz's SCU begin to fall from the sky)
Linda: I'll be honest. I didn't think that would work.
Baljeet: I did not bring a plate. I thought they would be provided.
Street Performer 2: Dude, we should getting served.
Street Performer 1: Yeah, I'm gettin' used to it.
Jeremy: Candace, are you okay?
Candace: You mean you came over to check on me?
Jeremy: Of course.
(Perry lands on Phineas' plate)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.

Jeremy: So, that's Kermillian's Comet. Did you make a wish?
Candace: Yes.
Jeremy: And did it come true?
(Candace and Jeremy hold hands)
Candace: It just did.

End Credits
♪ Who ya' got back home watering your plants? ♪
♪ S-I-M-P, squirrels in my pants ♪
♪ How can I qualify for government grants? ♪
♪ S-I-M-P, squirrels in my pants ♪
♪ Yeah ♪
♪ Hypnotize me, put me in a trance ♪
♪ S-I-M-P, squirrels in my pants ♪
♪ Get an Aunt Florence living in France ♪
♪ She can't see the— ♪
Candace: Squirrels in my pants!
♪ Step right over and watch me put it down ♪
Candace: Squirrels! Squirrels!
♪ Step right over and watch me put it... ♪
♪ S. to the I. to the M. to the P. ♪ 
Street Performer 1: (On the closing logos) Wow, she had actual squirrels in her pants.



(Scene opens up in Candace's room.)
Stacy: Hey, Candace. When I heard you were sick, I came right over. Today I am your servant.
Candace: (Hoarsely) Gosh. What a good friend. (Coughs)
Stacy: I brought you a get-well package. Miso soup-- heats itself, don't ask-- Who Wants To Be A Total Idiot 3, and rocky road ice cream! You don't want everything to be good. And you don't have to worry about your brothers - your mom says they're off playing miniature golf. (Scoffs) How lame is that?

(At Little Duffers)
Phineas: Hey, guys. What gives?
Isabella: Little Duffers has closed its doors forever. And I was all set to destroy you on the mini links.
Buford: I was gonna bury you on the fairway.
Baljeet: Metaphorically, right?
Buford: Oh, yeah, right.
Phineas: But how can they close Little Duffers? I've been coming here since I was little. Littler, anyway. Huh?
(♪ Bagpipes)
Owner: (Scottish accent) Sorry, lads, but Little Duffers is officially out of business.
Phineas: But this is the only miniature golf course in Danville.
Owner: Aye. People just don't respect the game anymore. They think it's just golf in miniature. But it's not! It's miniature golf.
All: Gosh.
Phineas: It's a sad thing when a town loses a major sports franchise.
Owner: But kids today only go for the stuff that's all shiny and new and high-tech. Ah, the Scotsman in me tells me (♪ Bagpipes) to hold on stubbornly to the bitter end! But then again, I'm half Irish. (♪ Irish dance)
(On a street)
Phineas: That's too bad. This was the perfect day for miniature golf. Hey, everyone, I know what we're gonna do today.
(At the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Phineas: (to Linda) Hi, Mom. We'll be out back building a miniature golf course.
Linda: That's fine, dear. After all, it's only golf in miniature.
(In Candace's room a cranking sound is heard)
Candace: (Hoarsely) What's that?
Stacy: Your brothers own a giant crane? No way!
Candace: They are so bu... bu... bu... (Writes on a notepad then hands it to Stacy)
Stacy: What's this? Dancing weasels? (Candace rotates the notepad) Oh, "busted." Oh, you want me to bust your brothers. You know, you really gotta work on your penmanship.
Candace: (Hoarsely) Find out what they're up to and report back to me.
Stacy: No problemo. I'll handle it.
Candace: Ah-ah... achoo!
(In the backyard)
Phineas: (Gasps) Awesome plan. We should be finished before lunch.
Stacy: Listen up, twerps. Just because Candace is sick doesn't mean you can get away with anything. I am now her eyes, ears and mouth. Basically I'm her whole face.
Phineas: What a good friend.
Stacy: Yeah, right? She wrote you this message.
Phineas: Hmm... Weasels. I think she means it.
Stacy: I knew they were weasels! So anyway, what's all this?
Phineas: We're only making the greatest miniature golf course in the whole world! Or at least in Danville.
Stacy: Isn't it kind of big?
Phineas: Well, you know, it isn't golf in miniature.
(In Candace's room)
Stacy: It's miniature golf! And it's so unbelievably cool! With a windmill and a dinosaur, and – (Candace silences Stacy by covering her mouth with her hand)
Candace: (Hoarsely) You must not be seduced by the coolness! Focus!
Stacy: You're right. I can do this if I stay focused. Focus, focus, focus! Hey, where's Perry?

♪ Dooby, dooby, doo ♪
♪ Dooby, dooby, doo ♪
Major Monogram: Just looking over your request for vacation time. We're ready to approve it, but there's one small problem. And by "small problem," I mean "big problem." And by "approve it," I mean "deny it." Sorry, Agent P. I know you've been putting in a lot of extra hours, but we've got word that Dr. Doofenshmirtz has bought a new house in the suburbs. Three bedroom, two and a half baths, central air. Nice place. We need you to find out what he's up to. Here's his new address. Good luck, Agent P.
♪ Perry! ♪
♪ Doofenshmirtz's house in the suburbs! ♪

(In the backyard)
Stacy: Okay. Focus, focus, focus. You can do this, Stacy. Don't get seduced by the coolness. Wuh-oh. "Elevator to the coolness"? (Steps on to the elevator) This is so cool!
Phineas: Okay, Ferb, you're up.
Stacy: Phineas.
Phineas: Oh. Hey, Stacy. What do you think of our miniature golf course?
Stacy: It's so... I mean, I've come to deliver a message with an unimpressed demeanor.
Phineas: Cool. We're on our way to the next hole. Why don't you come along?
Stacy: Well, okay, but--
Phineas: Great!
(Song: "Quirky Worky Song")
♪ Soodyup, diddyup di-di-di-di-dee-da ♪
♪ Soodyup, diddyup di-di-di-di-dee-da ♪
♪ Soodyup, diddyup di-di-di-di-dee-da ♪
♪ Soodyup, diddyup -di-di-di-dee-da ♪
♪ Soodyup, diddyup di-di-di-di-dee-da ♪
♪ Di-di-di-di-dee-da Da-da-da-da-da ♪
Phineas: So, Stacy, what was it you were gonna tell us?
Stacy: Oh, right, well, Candace is gonna... call...!
♪ Soodyupdiddyup di-di-di-di-dee-da ♪
Stacy: What kind of hole is this, anyway?
Phineas: It's the air hockey hole. Check it out.
Stacy: Wicked!
Buford: Hey, look at us. We're glidin' on air.
(bell rings)
Stacy: Hole in one! I mean, goal! I mean...
Stacy: Yeah! We all, like, freaked out! Can you believe it?
Candace: (Hoarsely) No, no, I can't. Did you, by any chance, tell them I was going to call mom?
Stacy: Uh, I was gonna, but the elevator and the slide, and... (Candace slaps her hand over Stacy's mouth)
Candace: (Hoarsely) Hush! Focus! We need evidence! Two words: video phone.

(Doofenshmirtz's house in the suburbs)
Male Voice: The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, by Mark Twain. Translated into evil. Chapter one. "Tom Sawyer's dislike of Aunt Polly was rivaled only by his hatred of puppies."
Doofenshmirtz: Waah! Oof! Perry the Platypus! You scared the dunkelschtup out of me! Don't you know it's rude to bust in on someone's new home unannounced and... (Gasps) A housewarming gift? Oh, how thoughtful! How thoughtful. Thank you. Look, Perry the Platypus, as much as I hate to admit it, I'm not really up to anything terribly nasty today. So, you're welcome to chill out here for the day. It's nice, huh? Huh? What do you think? If you need, I'll even sign something that says I was up to no good.

(At the miniature golf course)
♪ Soodyup, diddyup di-di-di-di-dee-da ♪
♪ Soodyup, diddyup di-di-di-di-e-da ♪
♪ Soodyup, diddyup di-di-di-di-dee-da ♪
♪ Di-di-di-di-dee-da da-da-da-da-da ♪
(Bell dings)
(Buford screams)
Stacy: Are you catching this?
Candace: (Hoarsely) Yes! Yes! This time we've got them, but you need get the boys in the picture. (Giggles then Coughs)
Phineas: There you are. We've been looking all over for you.
Stacy: Me?
Phineas: You gotta play through.
Stacy: Hold this.
Candace: (Hoarsely) Stacy, what are you doing? Focus!
Phineas: Nice focus.
Candace: (Hoarsely) Aahh!
Stacy: What was that?
Phineas: Sounds like the crowd's going wild.
Stacy: That is so cool!
Candace: (Hoarsely) Aah!
♪ i-di-di-di-d- dah-dah-dah-dah ♪
♪ Soodyup, diddyup di-di-di-di-dee-da ♪
♪ Soodyup, diddyup di-di-di-di-dee-da ♪
♪ Soodyup, diddyup di-di-di-di-dee-da ♪
♪ Di-di-di-di-dee- dah-dah-dah-dah ♪
(bell rings)
Stacy: Whoo-hoo! Yes, yes, yes!
Candace: (Hoarsely) No, no, no!
Phineas: Well, here we are. We've reached the final hole. You better put on your dancin' shoes.
(Song: "Disco Miniature Golfing Queen")
♪ Steppin' on the greens in her designer jeans ♪
♪ She's a Disco Miniature Golfing Queen ♪
♪ Wearin' plaid and sequins, she can make the scene ♪
♪ She's a Disco Miniature Golfing Queen ♪
♪ Like a vision for a disco golf magazine ♪
♪ With her putter, she's a hole-in-one machine ♪
♪ She can dance and sing and really shake her thing ♪
♪ She's a Disco Miniature Golfing Queen ♪
♪ She's a Disco Miniature Golfing Queen! ♪
(In Candace's room)
Candace: (Hoarsely) Poor Stacy. What was I thinking? Okay, Candace. Looks like it's up to you. (She gets off her bed. As she takes tiny steps her slippers squeak)

(Doofenshmirtz's house in the suburbs)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, this is nice, eh? But, you know, I don't think suburban life is for me. I'm thinking of just adding a breakfast nook and flipping the property. The main problem is my neighbor, Phil. He is truly diabolical. His fruit falls into my yard, his dog poops on my lawn, he leaves his trash cans out too long, and... Oh, I'm at my wit's end! And the worst, the absolute worst, is his leaf blower.
Okay, that's it! Time to end this once and for all! And no one is stopping me!
Behold, Perry the Platypus! The ultimate suburban weapon: the Atomic Leaf Blower-inator! This will be the last time his stray leaves blow onto my lawn.
Yah! Aahh! Turn it off! Turn it off!
Good, just like planned. Now, I'll blow every leaf onto his property! Ha-ha-ha-ha--ha-ha!

Candace: (Hoarsely) At least the golf course can't vanish if they're still in it. Come on, Mom.

Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Phil the neighbor!
(Crash)
(In Linda's car)
Linda: Candace, what are you doing out of bed? Wasn't Stacy taking care of you?
Candace: (Hoarsely) She was seduced by the coolness. Follow that miniature golf course!
Linda: What does that even mean?
Candace: (Hoarsely) Look behind you!
Linda: I don't see anything.
(At Little Duffers)
Farmer's wife: You know you should've been setting aside a portion of your profits over the years with the understatement that money would be used to upgrade your vestment. What did you think? A shiny new miniature golf course would just fall out of the sky?
Owner: You'd be surprised what falls out of the sky in Danville.
Linda: Oh, isn't that great? They remodeled Little Duffers.
Phineas: I still don't know how we ended up at Little Duffers.
Ferb: I don't know why we didn't build it here in the first place.
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
Stacy: Candace! Did you hear? I won! I actually won in miniature golf! It just goes to show you that if you focus, you can accomplish anything. (Sneezes)
(The ending of the Phineas and Ferb Theme plays. Then the music suddenly stops)
(In Candace's room)
Stacy: Sorry, I forgot to bust your brothers.
Candace: (Hoarsely) It's okay. I'm sorry I got you sick.



(Scene opens up in a scary movie Phineas and Ferb are watching.)
Mad scientist: You know what we're going to do today, Talbo? It's time to test...THE TELEPORT! (Flips a switch, causing the teleports to activate. Talbo teleports to the one to the right, only get to singed.) Eureka! Now I can teleport myself anywhere in the world!
Talbo: Wouldn't you have to take one of those teleport things there first? Oh, but then you'd already be there. It kinda renders the whole thing redundant, doesn't it?
Mad scientist: Do you want me to remove your tongue again, Talbo?
(Shift to Phineas and Ferb watching the movie)
Phineas: Cool! (turns off TV with the remote) I know what we can do today, Ferb. (chuckles while Ferb covers his mouth with his hands) No, not the tongue thing. The teleporter.
Linda: (off screen) Hey, boys.
(Linda crawls by)
Phineas: Hey, Mom. Ferb and I are gonna build a teleport device.
Linda: (oblivious) Oh, great. I wish to teleport to where my earrings are. I've lost them.
Phineas: The dangly smoky topaz or the hoops?
Linda: Hoops.
Phineas: Oh, she must be wearing the blue dress. We'll keep an eye out for 'em. (at Ferb) Come on, Ferb. We're burnin' daylight.
(Montage of Phineas and Ferb building the teleports. Instrumental version of the theme song plays in the background.)
Phineas: Teleports completed! .... Hey, where's Perry?
(In Candace's room...)
Candace: (sniffs) (record scratch) Ew!
(Perry wakes up)
You're not supposed to be here.
(Perry chatters)
I told Phineas and Ferb to keep you outta my room. (kicks the bedroom door open as she's holding Perry) I'm gonna give them a piece of my mind.
(Downstairs...)
Candace: Mom! Do you know where Phineas and Ferb are?
Linda: They're in the garage, honey.
Candace: Oh, by the way, Jeremy's gonna be here soon. Please try not to embarrass me in front of him again.
Linda: What do you mean, again?
Candace: Remember my fifth-grade graduation with the inflatable–
Linda: Oh, that's right. My bad.
(In the garage...)
Phineas: This is a glorious day for mankind. Ready with the camera so we can document it?
(Ferb gets ready with the camera)
Phineas: Cheese!
(Candace runs in front of the lens right when Ferb takes the photo)
Candace: How many times have I told you to keep Perry out of my room?! (notices the teleports) What are those?
Phineas: Teleports. Pretty cool, huh?
Candace: You guys are so bus – Aah! (trips on a controller, disappears through one teleport, and appears from the other)
Phineas: Cool. It worked. (suddenly looks concerned) Candace? Are you OK?
{Editor's Note: Until Perry and Candace switches back, this transcript refers Perry in Candace's body as Perry/Candace and Candace in Perry's body as Candace/Perry.}
Candace/Perry: (pointing at her brothers) Wait a second. How you guys get so big? (gasps) And why is my hand green? (takes a pink mirror from a nearby box) AHHHHHHH!!! I'M AN UGLY, SMELLY PLATYPUS!!! I'm a platypus! I'm a platypus! I'm a platypus! I'm a platypus!
Phineas: (talking over) Amazing. You and Perry going through the teleport at the same time must have switched your brains.
Candace/Perry: Oh, you think? You guys better change me back now or I'll... Wait...JEREMY'S GONNA BE HERE SOON!
Phineas: Not a problem, sis. We'll just put you both through the teleporter again. Hey, where's Perry? Uh, I-I mean Candace. I mean Perry in Candace's body.
(Perry/Candace chatters)
♪ Dooby-dooby doo ♪
♪ Ba dooby-dooby doo ♪
♪ Ba dooby-dooby doo ♪
(In the backyard...)
Phineas: I wonder where he scampered off to. Any ideas, Ferb?
Isabella: What'cha dooooin'?
Phineas: Hey, Isabella. We built a teleportation device and accidentally switched Candace and Perry's brains.
Isabella: Really? That's so cool!
Candace/Perry: You wouldn't think it was so cool if you smelled like this.
Phineas: We're looking for Perry so we can switch them back to normal. Wanna help?
Isabella: You betcha.

Major Monogram: (off screen) Carl! How many times have I told you, lift the seat when you're done.
Carl: (off screen) Sorry!
Major Monogram: Oh, there you... (Realizes what he saw) Uh-oh. Carl, I think we have a breach of security.
Carl: (off screen) What do you mean, sir?
Major Monogram: There's a teenage girl in here.
Carl: A teenage girl?
(A fedora lands on Perry/Candace's head.)
Major Monogram: Agent P, brilliant disguise!
Carl: Man! I thought it was a real girl. (walks away in disappointment)
(Perry/Candace looks at a panel under the monitor seeing his/her reflection and chatters in horror.)
Major Monogram: Now for your mission. Slushy the Clown statues have disappeared all over the Tri-State area. Without that clown, there's just nothing fun about lunch anymore.
Major Monogram: Carl and I have lunch at Mr. Slushy Burger every day. ♪ Pickles so green and meat so brown ♪ (Carl joins in) ♪ Lunchtime's fun with Slushy the Clown ♪ We really miss that clown. (sniffles) So, ahem, drop whatever you're doing and find out what happened to those statues by lunchtime.
Stacy: Candace? Hey, Candace! Awesome scooter! Hey, wanna come to Slushy Burger with my mom and me? Was that a yes or a no?
Dr. Hirano: I don't know, but I like the hat.
Stacy: Yeah, it's a good look for her.

Candace/Perry: Come on, guys! Are you almost done? Jeremy's gonna be here soon.
Phineas: Ferb's printing up the last one now. Looks great, Ferb.
Candace/Perry: (reading from the flyer) "Lost platypus. Looks like a girl"? Why did you use that picture? I don't want anyone to see me like that!
Phineas: That's the only picture we had. (at Isabella) Good job, Isabella!
(The picture appears on the side of a giant blimp)
Isabella: Glad I could help!
Candace/Perry: Aaaah! Now everyone will see that horrible picture!
Phineas: OK, Candace, just stay here while we post these around town. We'll find Perry in no time.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
♪ Pickles so green and meat so brown ♪
♪ Lunchtime-- ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (Ejecting a voice box) Not anymore!
(crash)
Doofenshmirtz: A teenage girl?
(Perry/Candace dons the fedora)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the teenage girl?!
(He pulls out a controller from his lab coat, pushes the button, and Perry/Candace is trapped in a platypus sized cage)
Sorry about the tight fit, but, you know, if I knew you were going to disguise yourself as a teenage girl, I would've set a bigger trap. I'm suppose you're wondering why I have all these clowns, right? Well, you see, I've had that Slushy Burger jingle stuck in my head for, like, a week. You know, it goes like this. ♪ Pickles so green and meat so brown, Lunchtime's fun with Slushy the Clown! ♪ Oh, I hate that song so much, I've stolen all the clowns, and I'm going to rip their tape boxes out. You know, like you do.
I'm going to replace it with my own evil jingle. I just have to finish writing it. I'm having a hard time finding a good rhyme for "evil," though, you know. Believe me, I've tried. Keevil, deevil, feevil, weevil... You know, none of these are words.

Police Officer: You guys lost a platypus?
Phineas: Yep.
Police Officer: Officer 3323. Tell Charlie we have a 10-91-P. Yeah, it's a platypus. Looks like a girl. MIA. (at Phineas and Ferb) Don't worry, boys. After a nice lunch at Mr. Slushy Burger, the Tri-State area's finest will be on the job.
Phineas: By the way, our mom's also missing her earrings.
Police Officer: Which ones? The dangly topaz or the hoops?
Phineas: The hoops.
Police Officer: Oh, that's a shame. We'll get right on it.
Candace/Perry: Mom, you won't believe what Phineas and Ferb did!
Linda: What did they do this time?
Candace/Perry: All you have to do is look at me!
(doorbell rings)
Candace/Perry: If that's Jeremy, tell him... I'm getting ready. I don't want him to see me like this.
(doorbell rings again)
Linda: OK, Candace, now what's so important? .... Hi, Jeremy.
Jeremy: Hey, Mrs. Flynn. Is Candace here?
Linda: Oh, she's still getting ready. You know girls. Have a seat. While you wait, I'll make you a snack.
(sits on the couch, sees Candace/Perry underneath)
Jeremy: Oh, hey, Perry. Come up here. How's my favorite little platypus today?
Candace/Perry: Oh hee- hee- hee- hee I mean... (tries to imitate Perry's chatter)
Crowd: (reading the billboard) "Lost platypus. Looks like a girl." You know, that's insulting to the platypus. How are we supposed to tell if it's a girl?
Linda: Why don't you watch some TV while you wait? Oh, hey. I've got some great baby movies of Candace.
(baby cooing)
Linda: Ohh! There she is in the bathtub. (bubbles gurgle) Oops! Little bubbles.
Candace/Perry: (off screen) Mom! Remember what we talked about? My fifth-grade graduation?
Linda: Fifth-grade graduation? What is she talking about?
Candace/Perry: Ugh! (off screen) Just turn off the home movies!

Doofenshmirtz: Meevil, steevil, cleavil.... As soon as I get this done, lunchtime will never again be fun. Oh, great! There's a rhyme! There's a rhyme, but sure, everything rhymes with "fun." (Perry/Candace tries to hit him with a tail, and only waves her behind in his face) .... Ha! You don't have a tail anymore. Now you are no match for me! But wait a minute. I-I-I can't hit a girl. Gets hit with Perry/Candace's shoulder bag) Oof! Did you have that purse when you came in? .... Well, I'm out of here. .... (Speeds away, leaving a smoke statue, which dissipates, revealing Doofenshmirtz) 
What just happened?

Linda: You're such a nice boy, Jeremy. I can why Candace built a shrine of you in her room. (laughs) Oopsy! I probably should've not said that. Thanks for feeding Perry while I look for my earrings.
Jeremy: Sure, no problem. .... What's in this platypus food, anyway?
Linda: Mostly worms and insect larvae. (Candace/Perry starts to barf then Linda puts her outside) Oh, Perry! Now I have to get the carpet cleaned again! Hey, maybe I lost my earrings while folding Candace's laundry. Why don't you help me look while you wait, Jeremy?
(Candace/Perry is locked out of the house in the backyard. She knocks on the door, and starts sweating milk)
Candace/Perry: Am I sweating milk?! Being a platypus is so gross!
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, wait! I can't-I can't fight when you're dressed as a girl. It's so...como se dice... awkward. .... Look! Shoes on sale! .... Curse you, Perry the teenager!
♪ Agent P! ♪
(Perry/Candace returns with a Slushy the Clown statue back)
Male teen: Hey! The girl missing her platypus found Slushy the Clown.
Kids: Yay!
Candace/Perry: This is horrible! Mom is inside, ruining my love life!
(Perry/Candace chatters)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
Candace/Perry: Great. Change me back now!
Phineas: So this is how you went through the first time, right? You were holding Perry?
Candace/Perry: (Holding Perry/Candace) Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Hurry! Oh! He's a lot heavier now.
(Phineas activates the teleporter)
Phineas: I wonder if it worked.
(A short pause, then...)
Candace: You guys are so busted! I'm telling Mom! (she leaves)
Ferb: You might consider bathing first.

Doofenshmirtz: I gotta get out of this! (Hits a button on the panel of a machine, it fires) Gah! Oh, dear. My old Shrinkinator. (sighs) I suppose I should've unplugged it before I turned it into a planter.
(in the garage...)
Candace: (comes into the garage with an evil look on her face) Come on, Mom, hurry up! (at Phineas and Ferb) You're busted.
(The ray from the Shrinkinator hits the teleporter. Linda comes in, wearing the blue dress as mentioned earlier. Candace barely notices)
Candace: (With her eyes closed) See?! see?! It's right there!!
Linda: Oh, my goodness!
(Candace gets a shocked expression on her face.)
Did you make these?
Phineas: Uh... yeah.
Linda: (gasps) These are so much nicer than the ones I lost!
(a fly buzzes in one loop and gets zapped out the other by Linda's new "earrings")
Phineas: Awesome.
Linda: Thanks, boys.
Candace: (jaw drops)
Linda: (at Candace, closing her mouth) Close your mouth, honey. You'll catch flies.
(Candace scowls as Linda walks out.)

End Credits
(Song: "Perry the Teenage Girl")
♪ She's a semi-neurotic ♪
♪ Teenage girl of action ♪
♪ Dooby-dooby doo Ba dooby-dooby doo ♪
♪ She's a feisty little redhead with a platypus' brain ♪
♪ You best leave her alone ♪
♪ She's playing MP3s on her phone ♪
♪ And whenever she's around ♪
♪ You can hear the bad guys say ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Great. Now I have this song stuck in my head.
♪ She's Perry, Perry the teenage girl ♪



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Grandpa Reg: And that, ladies and gents, is how I defeated the wild tigers in the Amazon.
Phineas: Awesome story, Grandpa Reg.
Lawrence: Well, I'm sure you'll hear plenty more fantastical stories during Gran and Gramp's visit.
Linda: You know, hon, I was thinking we could all head to the mall.
Grandma Winifred: What a splendid idea! I'd love to treat Candace to some new clothes.
Candace: (Gasps) I'll be in the...car.
Phineas: Hey, Mom. Could we just stay home and hear some more of Grandpa's cool stories?
Linda: Sounds good to me.
Lawrence: Wonderful. We'll see you boys later.
(Linda, Lawrence, Candace, and Grandma Winifred leave)

Grandpa Reg: My boy, what's this behind your ear? It's me scrapbook!
Phineas: How'd you do that?
Grandpa Reg: It's just a little bit of "How's you're father". I may seem like a barmy ol' git now, but when I wasn't so long in the tooth, I had some grand larks and engaged in a fair amount of derring-do.
Phineas: Translate.
Ferb: When he was younger, he did a bunch of stuff.
Grandpa Reg: Here I am as a young lad. I made my livin' work at the family Fish and Chips shop. But I was destined for bigger things. I was known as The Great Flying Fishmonger. Here's my first jump over my dear mum's tea society. Me jumpin' a whale, a ton of crumpets, the Queen Mum. But there was one jump that haunts me to this day; McGregor's Gorge of Doom.
(Flashback)
Grandpa Reg: (Narrating) People turned out by the thousands to witness me in my trusty motor bike, the Holy Mackerel, make our biggest jump yet. The event was so massive, I hired a local band to write me a theme song.
Band: (Dirge-like) ♪ He's a Fishmonger, and he flies ♪
Grandpa Reg: But it wasn't exactly a toe-tapper. Then all of a sudden, it started to rain. I had to postpone my great feat. The second go at it weeks later had the same result! And yet another attempt; nothing but blasted rain again.
Man: Let's go!
Woman: Yeah. I've got teeth not to brush.
(Flashback ends)
Grandpa Reg: Over the years, my eyesight went, and with the lumbago... (Grunts) ...Sciatica... (Creaking) ...Bursitis and... Wait for it...(Boing!) Trick knee, jumpin' McGregor's Gorge is an intention lost to the past.
Phineas: Wow, Grandpa. So whatever happened to the Holy Mackerel?
Grandpa Reg: She's right over there. Although I see your mother turned her into a lamp.
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
(Scene shifts to Candace)
Candace: Oh, Grandma, you're gonna love this mall! I'll show you my favorite store, and there's this little dress that-- (Ding) Hmm... (Dialing) Stacy, I have a strange feeling that ground just broke in my backyard. I need you to get over there and tell me what's going on.
(Scene shifts to the backyard)
(Trucks beeping)
Phineas: Judging from this photo of McGregor's Gorge, we're right on track! Who's the tiger?
Isabella: Hey, Phineas! Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Hey, Isabella. We're helping Grandpa Reg fulfill his crushed dreams.
Isabella: Where's Ferb?
Phineas: He's in the garage restoring the mackerel.
(Briefly, Ferb is seen working on the mackerel in the garage, he stops to eat a grilled cheese sandwich)
Isabella: Cool. Well, I brought this cute little toy over for Perry. Where is he?
Phineas: Huh. I don't know.

(Scene shifts to Perry's lair)
Carl: Oh, hey, Agent P. Monogram's thrown his back out...
Major Monogram: I'm on the floor, Agent P.
Carl: ...so I'll be giving you your assignment, okay? Okay.
Major Monogram: Do a closeup.
Carl: Huh? Oh, yeah. Huh. (Beep) (Clears throat) Doofenshmirtz has been purchasing some suspicious items: Bags of sand, and extra-long shoelace. We know he's up to no good. Get out there and see what he's up to. (at Major Monogram) How was that?
Major Monogram: Just hand me my pills, Carl.

(Phineas and Ferb lead Reg out; Reg has his eyes covered)
Grandpa Reg: What's all the kerfuffle, lads?
Phineas: You can open your eyes now.
Grandpa Reg: (puts arms down, monocle falls off) Blimey! It's McGregor's Gorge and the Holy Mackerel! Ferb, you've restored my pride and joy! But, uh, I can't operate a motorbike in my condition. Remember the- (Boing!)
Phineas: No problem. Ferb's tricked out the whole bike. Lumbar support, padded seating, ergonomic controls, and the best part - Side cars! See, as much as we wanna help you fulfill your dream, we also really want to jump a gorge.
Grandpa Reg: Well, then you'll come with me. The Flyin' Fishmongers shall jump again!
(Fanfare)
Grandma Winifred: Oh, my dear! You look like a queen. Brava!
Candace: (wearing British clothes) Uh, can we get out of here, like, now? Before anyone I know happens to see--
Jeremy: Candace? I almost didn't recognize you.
Candace: Jeremy! I-- I, uh--
Jeremy: I gotta meet my Mom at the food court, but I'll see ya later.
Candace: (Laughs nervously) (Phone rings) Hello? Oh, hey, Stacy. (At Linda) Mom! Stacy just told me the boys built a huge gorge in our backyard!
Linda: That hat might be a bit too tight.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, just come in! Into my trap! Yes! Sticky flypaper, Perry the Platypus! (Laughs) Quick story? Back in Druselstein in the days of my youth, there was a bully named Boris, and he always wore big, black boots. They called him "Big Black Boots Boris". He was always kicking sand in my face. When I was in the sandbox; Sand. My first date; Sand! Balancing my checkbook; Sand! The beach-- Oddly enough nothing. But I couldn't relax, because I kept waiting for it. Now, though, he will be the one doing the waiting. Behold! The Now who'd blinded by sand-inator! Or maybe the Who's crying now-inator or, something like...something with the "Inator" suffix. In any case, it's a giant sand kicking machine! You see, Perry the Platypus, Boris has moved to the Tri-State Area, so now, I am going to cover his entire house in sand! (Laughs maniacally)

(Scene shifts to Buford and Baljeet standing on a sidewalk corner)
Baljeet: Come see The Flying Fishmonger jump McGregor's Gorge! Tell your friends!
Buford: Do you know how dumb you look?
Baljeet: I thought it would be a good way to get more attention.
Girl (Cindy): I love your outfit. It's so cute.
Baljeet: Gorge!
Buford: Gorge jump!
Baljeet: Fishmongers fly again!
(Candace stops to see a commercial on TV)
TV Announcer: Come see The Flying Fishmonger jump the gorge; Live.
Candace: (Gasps) That's our yard! Mom! Mom! Come here! I need you to see this! (drags Linda to the TV and motions toward it with eyes closed)
TV Announcer: Sponsored by Gorgeous Cream Pore Paste.
Linda: Oh, honey, you're pores aren't that big.
(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Phineas: And now, what you've all come to see, The Flying Fishmongers!
(Crowd cheers)
Phineas: And here to play the Fishmonger's anthem are Isabella and the Fireside Girls. Hit it!
Fireside Girls: (Dirge-like) ♪ He's a fishmonger, and he flies ♪
(Thunder crashes)
Grandpa Reg: Well, me boy, looks like I'll never get to fulfill my dream.
Phineas: Hey, guys. You can stop playing. Wait a second. Start again.
Fireside Girls: (Dirge-like) ♪ He's a Fishmonger-- ♪
Phineas: Stop. Start.
Fireside Girls: (Dirge-like) ♪ He's a Fishmonger... ♪
Phineas: Grandpa, the song's so dreary, it's causing it to rain. What if we pep it up a bit?
Grandpa Reg: Pep away, me boy.
Phineas: Hey, Isabella, crank it up a notch!
Isabella: Okey-Dokey! (At Fireside Girls) Ready, girls?

(Song: The Flying Fishmonger)
Choir: ♪ Holy, Holy Mackerel (X4) ♪

Phineas: ♪ He's bald on top, he's got an artificial hip ♪
♪ He's gonna take a hop, he's gonna take a trip ♪
♪ He's weak in the knees, and he can't find his keys ♪
♪ But put your hands together, 'cause he's here to please ♪

♪ He's a Flyin' Fishmonger ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ (Flyin' Fishmonger!) ♪
Phineas: ♪ He's a Flyin' Fishmonger ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ (Death-Defying wonder!) ♪
Phineas: ♪ He's a Flyin' Fishmonger with nerves of steel ♪
♪ He's got an old blender motor and a pair of wheels ♪

(Motor revving)
Newspaper Boy: Extra, extra! Fishmonger and kids jump McGregor's Gorge!
(Crowd cheering)
Extra, extra! Fishmonger and kids plummet to their doom!
Grandpa Reg: Maybe we should have let it rain!
Phineas: Don't worry, Grandpa! We've got a backup plan! (At Ferb) Ferb?
Ferb: (Pulls lever, Plane wings come out)
Grandpa Reg: Good show!
(Wing breaks)
Newspaper Boy: Extra, extr-- Aw, forget it.
Phineas: Well, that can't be good.
Grandpa Reg: Spot of tea?
Phineas: Yeah, all right.
Candace: Dad, can we speed up this pony ride a little?
Lawrence: Honey, I'll have you ladies home in two shakes of a lamb's tail.
(Tires screech)
Lawrence: Whoo! That was a close one.
(Telephone lines stretch; Boing)
(Tires screech)
Ferb: (Pulls wing, throws it in water)
(Bounce house deflates)
Kids: Aw.
(Engine revving)
(Crowd cheers)
Grandpa Reg: Good show, me boy! Good show!
(March theme)

(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: (Laughs) The home of my former nemesis. Time to kick a little sand, eh, Perry the Platypus?
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Tube socks? What is this, 1974? Well, it's too late now...oh! (Button beeps) What are you doing?

(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Grandma Winifred: Home again, home again.
Candace: Ah, finally!
Grandpa Reg: Thank you, lads. For helping this old codger fulfill his dream.
Candace: (runs into the backyard) Ha! You guys are sooooo busted! (sees the gorge) Look at this, it's better than I thought! There's no way you're gonna get out of this one! (runs off) Oh, Mom? Mom?!!

(Scene shifts back to Doofenshmirtz and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: Cut it out, Perry the Platypus! No grabbies! Ha! No stopping it now!
(Bucket clangs, Wind gusting)
Doofenshmirtz: Even on my Sand-Kicking machine; Sand!
(Bucket clangs, Boot flies, Soil patches gorge)
♪ Agent P! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Platypus!

(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Grandpa Reg: Must say, love the new anthem.
Phineas: Hey, Perry.
Grandpa Reg: But I do miss the old one. Couldn't I hear it one last time?
Phineas: You got it, Grandpa. One last time, girls!
Isabella/Fireside Girls: (Dirge-like) ♪ He's a Fishmonger, and he flies (X2) ♪
(It rains; the area where the dirt was dumped in the gorge makes new grass grow just before Candace comes in)
Candace: These two have really done it this time, Mom, (with eyes closed) look at what they did to the backyard!
(horror sting)
Linda: Wow! (gasps, her perspective) You guys made the lawn look great! (At this point, Candace turns around) Oh, it's all weeded and watered. Oh, well done.
Candace: I...I... (Squeaks) I...
Linda: What else did you do today?
Grandpa Reg: Well, these two roister-doisters wheeled out me old iron, built a crackin' match for McGregor's Gorge, and helped this daft ol' git one last knees-up.
(Phineas looks at Ferb in a "translate-for-me" kind of way)
Ferb: I have absolutely no idea.

End credits
(Song: The Flying Fishmonger)
Choir: ♪ Holy, Holy Mackerel (X3) ♪
Phineas: ♪ He's bald on top, he's got an artificial hip ♪
♪ He's gonna take a hop, he's gonna take a trip ♪
♪ He's weak in the knees, and he can't find his keys ♪
♪ But put your hands together, 'cause he's here to please ♪
♪ He's a Flyin' Fishmonger ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ (Flyin' Fishmonger!) ♪
Phineas: ♪ He's a Flyin' Fishmonger ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ (Death-Defying wonder!) ♪
Phineas: ♪ He's a Flyin' Fishmonger with nerves of steel ♪
♪ He's got an old blender motor and a pair of wheels ♪



Part I
(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: Hello. Is this the Johnson residence? I'd like to speak to Jeremy Johnson. This is Candace Flynn. Why am I calling, you ask? Because I have a question about our algebra assignment. Thank you, I'll hold. Okay, okay, let's see... opening jokes, opening jokes. Hey there, Jeremy! This is Candace Flynn. So what do you get when you cross a yak and a martian?
Linda: Honey, could I interrupt for just a sec?
Candace: Why, Jeremy Johnson, did you just call me "Honey"?
Linda: No, Candace. I just want to tell you I'm off to my book club. I left the phone number on the fridge in case of emergency. And Candace, honey...
Candace: Yes, Mom?
Linda: I hope you're not planning on talking to that banana all afternoon.
Phineas: Ladies and Platypuses, introducing the latest party craze to sweep the nation: The amazing mariachi tree!
(Mariachi music)
(Song distorts, Crashing)
(Mariachi band members groaning)
I think the lesson here is never drink so much chocolate milk before planning our day's activity. (At Mariachi band) Bye, guys. Sorry. Good work there, though. There's that smile, Arturo. Gracias.
Isabella: Hi, Phineas.
Phineas: Oh. Hi, Isabella.
Isabella: Whatcha do-- (Hiccups)
Phineas: Are you okay?
Isabella: Yeah. I just came by to see whatcha do-- (Hiccups) --ing.
Phineas: Wow. That's a bad case of hiccups you got there.
Isabella: I know. They're driving me crazy. (Hiccups)
Phineas: Not to fear, Isabella. Ferb and I will help you cure your hiccups.
Isabella: (Hiccups)
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?

Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. Dr. Doofenshmirtz is on the move. We tracked him to these coordinates when we suddenly lost his signal. We have two scenarios to explain his disappearance. First, that magical elves have caused Dr. Doofenshmirtz to vanish to the land of angry corn people. The second, is that he may be on his secret, hideout-shaped island with the initial "D" carved into it that satellites found in the exact, spot, where he... vanished... uh, you know what? Uh, forget the magical elves thing. Way off base with that. Anyway, on your way, Agent P.
(Song: "Perry the Platypus Theme")
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba (X4) ♪
♪ Perry! ♪
♪ He's a semi-aquatic, egg-laying mammal of action ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba, doo be doo be doo ba ♪
♪ He's a furry little flatfoot, he'll never flinch from a fray-ay-ay! ♪
♪ He's got more that just mad skill, he's got a beaver tail and a bill ♪
♪ And the women swoon whenever the hear him say ♪
(Perry chatters, women faint)
♪ He's Perry, Perry the Platypus! ♪
Major Monogram: You can call him Agent P.
♪ Perry! ♪
Major Monogram: I said you can call him Agent P.
♪ Agent P! ♪

Phineas: Okay, Isabella. The best way to cure the hiccups is to scare them away. So what scares you?
Isabella: Hmm... (Hiccups) Well, there was this haunted house at the state fair-- (Hiccups) That was pretty scary.
Phineas: That's it! Ferb and I are gonna make you the scariest haunted house ever! (Organ) Zombies, werewolves, and ghosts, and vampires, and witches!
Candace: (Clears throat)
Phineas: Oh, hey, Candace.
Candace: Phineas! The only way you're building a haunted house in this backyard is over my dead body.
Phineas: (Deep voice) That's the idea. Blah!
Candace: That's it, you little psycho! I'm calling Mom! (Door slams; she then opens it) And I am not using the banana this time! (Door slams again)
Phineas: You guys heard that, right? It wasn't just me?

Candace: Build a haunted house, my foot! (Phone dialing) They're so busted. Yes, hello. This is an emergency. I'd like to speak with Linda Flynn. To whom am I presently speaking?
Jeremy: Uh, Jeremy, that's whom.
Candace: J-J-Jeremy? (Stammers) Jeremy who?
Jeremy: Jeremy Johnson. My Mom's hosting a book club today, who is this?
Candace: We seem to be breaking up. I-I'm going into a tunnel... Sunspots, I-- ¡No habla español!
(Dial tone)

♪ Doofenshmirtz's hideout-shaped island! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? HERE? How could this be? I'm shocked. (walks over to a map of the ocean with his hideout on it) I mean, it would have taken a total evil mastermind to have guessed that you'd track me to this point, find the secret hide-out, glide in under the radar and infiltrate through this access vent, make your way over to this crate, activating my automatic arm and leg restraints. Right here? This is the part where I get all sarcastic and pretend you surprise me. "OH, PERRY THE PLATYPUS?!? HOW? WHAT THE? WHO THE? WHY THE..." Oh! ...Finally ending here, where I finish showing you my brilliant plan. You see Perry the Platypus, this secret hideout doesn't actually belong to me. It belonged to my mentor, Professor Destructicon, Kevin, to his friends. Sadly, he was just captured in the midst of his latest plan to set fire to the sun! Redundant, perhaps. But before they locked him away, Kevin asked a favor of me: To prevent them from discovering his hidden lair and all its secrets, would I please SET FIRE TO THE SUN! I was like, dude, you really got to let that one go, it's a ball of fire! It makes no sense. So he asked me instead to simply destroy his hide-out, which I will now do, using my new Disintevaporator. (Clears throat; Dramatic music) And you, Perry the Platypus, will now be disintevaporated along with it! (Laughs maniacally)

Candace: Okay, just breathe and relax. (Sighs) Let's try this again. Hi. Uh, Linda Flynn, please. But if she's too busy, uh, then maybe there's someone else who can deliver her a message. Maybe someone in their teens!
Girl: Uh, who is this?
Candace: This is Candace. Candace Flynn. And who is this?
Suzy: I'm Suzy, Jeremy's little sister.
Candace: Well, it is such a pleasure to meet you on the--
Suzy: You called for Jeremy, didn't you?
Candace: Jeremy? Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
Suzy: You say you want your Mom, but you really want Jeremy. Isn't that right?
Candace: That's not true.
Suzy: I'm sorry, (Paper crinkling) We seem to be breaking up.
Candace: Stop crinkling paper! I know that trick!
Suzy: Bye bye.
Candace: Wait, wait, wait! It's true. I want to speak to Jeremy.
Suzy: I thought so. (At Jeremy) Jeremy, some girl's on the phone for you! (At Candace via phone) But never, ever forget, I am, and always will be Jeremy's favorite girl. Got it?
Candace: Mmm-hmm. Yes.
Jeremy: I got it, my favorite girl. (At Candace via phone) Jeremy here.
Candace: (Gasps) Jeremy!
Jeremy: Candace?
Candace: Uh, yeah, yeah, it's me. (Giggling)
Jeremy: Hey, you know, your mom's over here for the book club.
Candace: Oh, yeah. Well, I just have this silly question to ask her.
Jeremy: Well, they're breaking for coffee. (Jazz music) Wanna come over? We can hang out.
Candace: (Screams)
Phineas: That was great, Ferb. But you should really save those screams for later, when the house is up and running.
Candace: Uh, I-- I mean, sure.
Jeremy: Cool. See you in about 20 minutes? (Hangs up)
Candace: (Faints)

Doofenshmirtz: Now I'll just load up a few things that Professor Destructicon let me store here. If there's one thing Kevin understood, it was closet space. Now, I'll just, uh, grab my keys to the escape jet, and, uh... Hmm. I could've sworn I put them in my lab coat. Oh, they're probably over here on the computer console...no. Ah, the kitchen. Hello? Keys? (Laughs) This is a little bit awkward, but have you seen my escape jet keys?
(Perry nods)
What? You have? Well, that's great! Where are they?
(Perry turns his head away, refusing to tell him) 
You won't tell me? Is this because you don't speak, or are you just being a jerk?
(Cut to Candace in a room with clothes spilled all over the floor; construction can be seen through the window.)
Candace: Oh, I can't believe it. I'm finally going to Jeremy's house. Okay, now, what would the perfect look be? (Gasps) I know: "Girl next door meets pop diva meets Hollywood bad girl crossed with an old school glamor goddess"! (Crash) Now I just gotta find the finishing touch.
Hey, boys! I'm off to the Johnson's book club. Jeremy invited me over.
Phineas: Uh, when you see Mom, could you tell her some snakes got lost in the house?
(Blade sharpener stops)
Candace: Okay! You boys have fun. See ya!
Phineas: Okay, troops. Thanks for coming on such short notice. Buford, I know this is cutting into your canasta game.
Buford: This better be good, pointy.
Phineas: Oh, it is. Isabella has been cursed...
(Everyone gasps)
...with hiccups!
(Everyone sighs)
Worse case I've ever seen. We're building this haunted house to scare the hiccups out of her. To do so, we must dig deep into those terrible places any sane man shoves into the darkest, twisted corners of his mind. Each of you must find out what scares you the most. As you can see, today we're building a haunted house, electronically controlled by this giant organ. Every room is monitored on these screens. And by playing the keys... (Organ plays, Pop) ...I can trigger all sorts of surprises. So with your help, my friends, we can build this house with enough horror to destroy the involuntary contraction of Isabella's diaphragm muscle once and for all! (Applause) Oh, there you are, Ferb. (At Crowd) Okay, people, let's get our scare on.

♪ Doofenshmirtz's mentor's hideout! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Am I getting warmer? Hmm? (Laughs) The sofa. My keys fell between the cushions, right? Uh, no. Oh, come on! I defeated you fair and square, Perry the Platypus! Why can't you accept your death with dignity and maturity and play "You're getting hot and cold" with me? Fine, be that way. I'll find my keys myself and teach you the meaning of grace under fire.
(Disintevaporator beeps) Please! I'll do anything! Oh, for the love of Great Caesar's ghost, what would you have me do?
(Circus music; Humming, screaming)

(Song: "It's Candace")
♪ La, la, la, la, la (X2) ♪
♪ Yeah ♪
♪ Who's that girl going down the street? ♪
♪ It's Candace (Candace) ♪
♪ She's the girl next door who's a pop diva by day and a Hollywood bad girl by night crossed with an old school glamour goddess I'd like to meet ♪
♪ It's Candace (Candace) ♪
♪ La, la, la, la, la (X2) ♪
♪ La, la, la, la ♪
(Ominous music)
Dog: (Barking; Chomp)
Candace: (Screams) Oh, help! Somebody! Oh, get it off me! These are designer jeans. Wait, what are you doing?
(Handle squeaking)
(Screams; Dog barking)
No, no! Ah! My hair! Help! No-- (Splat) Huh?
Suzy: (Laughing maniacally)
(Beeping)
(Mud splashing; Candace screams)
Candace: Why are you doing this to me?
Suzy: (Laughing maniacally)
Jeremy: Suzy? What's going on out here? (At Candace) Candace?
Candace: Oh, uh, hi, Jeremy.
Suzy: Upsies!
Candace: Wait, no! Don't pick her up! She's evil! Evil! Can't you see? She's out to get me! She did this to me!
Jeremy: (Laughs) What are you talking about? Little Suzy wouldn't hurt a fly.
Suzy: (Giggles) Ba-ba.
Candace: No! She's trying to get rid of me! Can't you see? I can't take it!
Jeremy: Wait, Candace!
Candace: No! If you can't see it, I should leave while I still have a shred of dignity left.
Jeremy: Candace, come back!
Suzy: Bye bye.

Isabella: Hi, Phineas. Whatcha do... Ph--Phineas? (Hiccups, Bell tolls, Wind blowing, Howling, Bats squeaking, Roaring)
(Screams)

Part II
(Scene opens up showing the top of the haunted house.)
(Bats squeaking, Dogs barking, Roaring)
Isabella: (Hiccups) Darn. It didn't work, Phineas. What else you got?
Phineas: Oh, we've got plenty, if you're up for it.
Isabella: I-- (Hiccups) g-g-guess so.
(Organ)
(Song: "One Good Scare")
Phineas: ♪ Come, let's tiptoe into the dark ♪
♪ One good scare ought to do it! ♪
♪ You'll find our bite much worse than our bark ♪
(Howling)
♪ One good scare ought to do ya some good ♪
♪ If you should find the daily grind, a tad bit taxing on the mind ♪
♪ To help unwind, if so inclined ♪
♪ I have a small suggestion ♪
♪ That if you dare into my lair, you should prepare for quite a scare! ♪
♪ Well, will you share in this nightmare with me, my only question ♪

Baljeet: Boo, boo, I say!
Phineas: Baljeet?
Baljeet: Oh, I am not Baljeet. I am the scariest thing known to man, a failed math test.
Phineas: Yeah, right. We're just gonna move on now.
Baljeet: You can run, but it won't be to the college of your choice, I tell you!

Phineas: ♪ If your hair lies lifeless and limp ♪
♪ One good scare ought to do it! ♪
(Screaming)
♪ Come with me, now, don't be a wimp! ♪
♪ One little scare ought to do ya some good ♪

Hello? Buford?
Buford: Behold; the face of evil.
Phineas: Buford, are you supposed to be Jeremy's little sister? You said you were gonna be something scary!
Buford: She is scary, man. She gives me the willies.
(Song stops)
Phineas: Little Suzy Johnson gives you the willies?
Buford: You don't know, man. You don't know.
Phineas: Um...we'll catch up with you later, okay?
Buford: Wash away the horror. Wash away the horror.
(Song continues; Bats squeaking)

Phineas: ♪ That is quite right, I would delight in taking flight into the night! ♪
♪ If I may give you such a fright, you know I surely would ♪
♪ But if I seem a bit extreme in my attempts to make you scream ♪
♪ Remember this spooky scheme will cure your hiccups for good ♪
♪ One little (X4) ♪
♪ One little scare ought to do you some good! ♪
Ferb: (Laughs maniacally)
Phineas: So, Isabella, did it work?
Isabella: (Hiccups)
Phineas: I was afraid she would say that. Well, there's one more thing we could try.
(Scene shifts to Candace riding her bike down the sidewalk, Suzy's poodle still on her head)
Candace: (Panting) What the-? (Suzy's poodle jumps off her head) What the-?
(Widen to reveal her seeing the haunted house from the backyard)
Candace: I don't believe this.
Doofenshmirtz: Let me get this straight. If I set you free, you'll give me the keys, right?
(Perry nods)
Oh, for Pete's sake, why didn't you say that, like, an hour ago?
(Arm and leg restraints unlock)
Oh, look, they were under your cute little platypus foot the whole time. (Laughs) Hurry, open, open, open. Now I grab my stuff. Hurry, hurry, hurry, must hurry. Seat belt, and ignition! (Engine whirring) Whew! That was close! (Laughs) Now, let's just make sure I didn't forget anything in my haste. Let's see, I've got my old basketball, the lamp, the Christmas lights, the umbrella, Perry the Platypus, the Disintivaporator, my golf -- PERRY THE PLATYPUS? (dramatic shock sound plays) THE DISINTIVAPORATOR?! (dramatic shock sound plays again) MY GOLF CLUBS?!? I don't even play golf! Oof! (Punches landing, Screaming, Laughs) How do you like it, huh? Agh! Wait, wait, wait. Hold on. Time, time, time. I got a hair caught in my mouth. Blagh. (Grunting, Laughs, Alarm beeping) Since you saved me the trouble of opening the hatch, let me show you out!
(Scene shifts to the backyard, Candace has gotten a closer look at the haunted house)
Candace: Those two are in such big trouble!
Phineas: Okay, Ferb, raise the antenna. Let's see if we can up the scariness factor. You see, our haunted house is powered by static electricity. Maybe we can get a lightning strike to fire things up.
Candace: (Echoing) Um, hello? Phineas? Ferb? You two are in big trouble? (Door slams, Wind blowing) Okay, you guys, stop fooling around. You guys better come out now. I'm getting really mad. (Skeleton cracking) What was that? (Screaming, Hissing)
(Giggling)
Milly/Ginger/Gretchen: Yeah!
Door: (Screams)
Candace: (Screams) Stay away from me! (Panting)
Vampire: (Transylvanian accent) Good evening. It is evening, isn't it?
Candace: (Screams)
(Bats squeaking)
(Baby cooing)
(Bones scattering)
(Screams)
(Bats squeaking, Lightning zapping)
Phineas: Whoa, whoa, whoa! Too much, Ferb! Too much! Watch out!
(Lightning zapping)
Candace: (Screams)
(Dogs yipping, Spiders dropping)
Baljeet/Buford: (Grunts)
Candace: Huh? (Screams)
Baljeet/Buford: (Screams)
Candace: (Screams)
Baljeet/Buford: (Screams)
Candace: (Screams)
Buford: (Screams)
Candace: (Screams)
(Swords, spears, and arrows shooting)
(Screams)
Phineas: Candace?
Candace: Phineas! When Mom sees that you've built a haunted house in the backyard with werewolves and vampires and a Giant Floating Baby Head? What's that even about?
(Baby cooing)
Not now!
(Baby crying)
And then there was a giant Jack-in-the-Box with a suit of armor that nearly took my head off, and you--you just drive me crazy! When I tell Mom what you've been doing, you are going down! Down, down, down!
Phineas: Isn't there any chance that that cured your hiccups?
Isabella: (Hiccups)
(Candace enters the elevator, the Giant Floating Baby head is there as well)
Candace: Would you get out of here?!
(The Giant Floating Baby head exits)
(Cuts to Perry swinging from the Christmas lights, they loop onto the top of the haunted house)
(Cut to Candace, the haunted house behind her is starting to be lifted, she barely notices. She suddenly sees Linda's car offscreen and smiles)
Mom's home. Perfect! (runs to her) Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom! Wait till you see what Phineas and Ferb have done!
(The haunted house starts to lift off the ground, everyone leaves, except Phineas, who gets trapped)
Phineas: What's happening? Uh, guys? A little hellllllllllllp...!
Isabella: Phineas!
Phineas: (Falls, screams)
Isabella: Quick, everyone! Sashes!
(The Fireside Girls flip their sashes out like a trampoline)
Fireside Girls: Hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup!
(Phineas screams, bounces off the trampoline and lands in Isabella's arms)
Isabella: Now that...was scary. Hey, my hiccups are gone!
(Ferb gives a thumbs up)
(Cut to Candace and Linda as the Fireside Girls walk out the gate.)
Candace: See? Absolute terror! These little creeps destroyed our backyard leaving this ugly mess in its place!
(Horror music; Close-up on Baljeet, who smiling and waves.)
Linda: Hi, Baljeet. (At Candace) That wasn't very nice, Candace. (walks inside leaving Candace stunned)
(Shows Perry on the haunted house, which is being carried by Dr. D's rocket)
Doofenshmirtz: Here you go, Perry the Platypus. Enjoy your disintevaporation!
(Dr. D throws the Disintivaporator on the the haunted house, and the force of the invention hitting the house is enough to break the string of Christmas lights, thus freeing the haunted house, which lands in the backyard. She turns around, notices it and smiles widely.)
Candace: (deeply) Ee-ee-ee-ee... (runs off)
(Inside...)
Candace: It's back! Mom, it's back!
(Horror music, zoom in on the timer on the Disintivaporator as it reaches zero. The machine destroys the haunted house, just before Candace and Linda come out.)
'Candace: It's back! I told you! It's returned.
(Pause, Linda does not answer. Baljeet, holding his satchel, is in the middle of their empty yard again.)
Baljeet: Oh, excuse me, I forgot my satchel.
(Linda looks on in anger. Candace stares with a shocked expression on her face.)
Linda: (walks back inside, flatly) Goodbye, Candace... (Door slams)
Isabella: (Walks up) What's the matter?
Candace: Phineas and Ferb are the matter. This day was ruined and I didn't get to hang out with Jeremy.
Isabella: Sorry, but you know, it was the best day for me! Due to my incurable case of hiccups, I spent an entire day showered with undivided attention from Phineas! It was wonderful!
Candace: Hiccups?
(Isabella nods, Jeremy enters)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. You ran away so quickly, we didn't get a chance to--
Candace: (Hiccups)
Jeremy: Sounds like you got a bad case of the hiccups.
Candace: (Hiccups)
Jeremy: Here, come on. Let's see what we can do about that. I got a glass of water with your name on it.
Candace: (Hisses)
Suzy: (To Buford) What? What did I do?
Buford: Heh, heh. Um, I- I'll, just uh, go.
(Ominous music)
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb under the tree; Perry sits with them.)
Phineas: That was a great day, Ferb. What did you think the scariest thing was?
Ferb: Definitely the Giant Floating Baby Head.
Phineas: Yeah...
(The ending of the Phineas and Ferb Theme plays.)
Phineas: Yeah, where did that come from?! (Ferb shrugs) Hm.
(The theme continues.)

End Credits
(Song: "One Good Scare")
Phineas: ♪ That is quite right, I would delight in taking flight into the night! ♪
♪ If I may give you such a fright, you know I surely would ♪
♪ But if I seem a bit extreme in my attempts to make you scream ♪
♪ Remember that this spooky scheme will cure your hiccups for good ♪
♪ One little (X4) ♪
♪ One little scare ought to do you some good ♪
Ferb: (Laughs maniacally)
Isabella: (Hiccups) Darn.



(Scene opens up showing Phineas and Ferb coming out of the curtains, playing organ music.)
Phineas: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We thought it only fair that the show you're about to see may disturb you. It may shock you. It may even horrify you!
Ferb: (Spew out a hairball)
Phineas: You've been warned.
(Scene shows episode logo, and thunder crashes in the background)
(Chorus singing, Thunder crashes and it starts raining)
Phineas: Looks like a real summer storm! (Thunder crashes) Well, our plan to stand alone in a field with a metal rod is out.
(Inside the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Grandpa Reg: (Reading a newspaper) This weather isn't fit for man nor platypus.
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?

♪ Doo be doo be doo ba (X2) ♪
♪ Doo ♪
(Organ music plays)
Major Monogram: (Comes out of curtains) Good morning, Agent P. (Puts his arms behind him) The mission you're about to receive may shock you. It may even horrify you! But then again, probably not, I mean, heh. You have been doing this for awhile. Anyway, sorry about the tarp behind me. Storm caused some water damage, and-- (Looks at his watch) Ooh! Cheese and crackers! Late for my cousin's wedding. Gotta go. Doofenshmirtz is up to something, and you know what to do.
♪ Perry! ♪

(Scene shifts to the kitchen)
Phineas: Hmm. I wonder where Perry goes off to.
Grandpa Reg: Lost your platypus, eh? (Camera zooms out) That reminds me of a really great monster story.
Phineas: Tell us, Grandpa!
Grandpa Reg: It's about Ferb's ancestor. He was his great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great uncle.
(The lights go out)
Candace: Great.
Grandpa Reg: (Turns on a flashlight) It was a long time ago, back in the old country, on a cold moonlit night.
(Flashback, black-and-white. In the background a wolf howls as it shows Phineas and Ferb lookalikes transporting heavy items)
Grandpa Reg: Your great uncle Ferbgor was assisting the famous Dr. Phineastein (In the flashback a platypus walks up) in the macabre task of collecting spare parts from semi-aquatic mammals. (In the flashback the platypus gives Ferbgor a steering wheel and runs off)
Dr. Phineastein: Hey, Ferbgor, the Monster's (Ferbgor walks up) Ball Best Monster Contest. A big prize goes to the best monster! Sweet. I know what we're gonna do today! (Cackles)
(Scene shows a castle with light electricity fizzing in the background)
Grandpa Reg: (Narrating) Back at Castle Phineastein, the boys began building a monster.
(Record needle scratches)
Candace: (Jumps in) Can you at least tell a story in color, Grandpa? (The flashback changes into color. The castle's in different colors, the sky is pink with a rainbow behind the castle)
Phineas: (Jumps in) Perhaps muted color would be better. (The flashback turns into a faded green and muted grey background, with the characters in the flashback now in color)
Grandpa Reg: (Jumps in) Who's telling the story anyway? (Grandpa Reg goes off and Candace and Phineas run off-screen. The camera zooms into the castle) Did I mention that the boys had a conniving and disapproving governess named Constance?
Constance: (While using a quill) So, anyway, (Clattering) Jeremiah was, like, totally checking me out when-- Will you hold it down? I am trying to use the quill!
Phineastein: Isn't it beautiful, Ferbgor? We're on the verge of bringing life to the (Walks to the counter) best monster ever. Okay, let her rip!
(Ferbgor cranks a handle and the table rises. When the table reaches the top, Dr. Phineastein pulls a lever and thunder crashes. He flips the lever again and Ferbgor cranks the handle as the table lowers. The platypus monster grunts)
Dr. Phineastein: It's alive! ALIVE!!! (Laughs maniacally and the platypus monster sits up) And it's really big.
(Scene shifts to the kitchen)
Phineas: How big, Grandpa?
Grandpa Reg: Bigger than a refrigerator but smaller than a really big refrigerator.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
(Thunder crashes)
(Perry opens the door and tiptoes in)
Doofenshmirtz: Don't close that door! (The door slams. The camera zooms out and he walks on-screen holding a candle) Oh, that's just great! The storms made my security system go all cuckoo, and you just locked us in. (Sighs) Well, you might as well make yourself comfy, 'cause we're stuck in here till the power comes back on. (Thunder crashes as the scene switches to Doofenshmirtz and Perry sitting in chairs) Ooh, quite a storm, huh? Reminds me of a story Papa Doofenshmirtz used to tell me to scare me into wetting the bed. (Laughs) That prankster! (Camera zooms into him) It began a long time ago with my great-great grandfather, Dr. Jekyll Doofenshmirtz!
(2nd flashback. Dr. Jekyll Doofenshmirtz is seen holding a screw)
Doofenshmirtz: (Jekyll Doofenshmirtz puts the screw on a machine) (Narrating) He was obsessed with being (Jekyll Doofenshmirtz screws the screw into place) the most evil scientist of his time. Back then, to be considered truly evil, you actually had to have an angry mob after you.
(A man participating in the mob knocks the handle)
Jameson: Your 11:00 is here.
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: The angry mob?! Ooh, they're early. Show them to the parlor.
(Scene switch to the parlor, showing everyone in the angry mob)
Woman: (Sips)
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: Top of the morning, angry mob.
Man: Let's hurry this along, Doctor. We've got a tar-and-feathering at noon.
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: Yes, of course, of course. This time I know I've created something evil enough to warrant your full attention and anger. The Concoction Brew-Inator! A diabolical machine that produces a potion (Turns the Concoction Brew-Inator on) to turn a normal man, (The Concoction Brew-Inator turns off) like myself, (Grabs the cup) into a horrible monster! (Drinks the potion) Now... tremble before me!
(Ding)
Mob: (Laughing)
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: (Seen as a fairy) What? You're not so much trembling. Wait, wait, wait, wait! Come back! (The mob leaves. The last person in the mob closes the door) So you're not an angry mob right now, but... I bet you're slightly irritated, right? I should get points for that! I should get points for that.

(Scene shifts to the kitchen)
Grandpa Reg: Uh, where was I? Oh, yes! Now, the boys had a real monster on their hands, and they had to get him ready for the big night.
(At Phineastein's castle)
(Platypus monster chatters)
Phineastein: Come on! That-a-boy! Check it out, Ferbgor. (Throws a fish in the Platypus monster's mouth) To make sure we win that monster contest, I taught him a few tricks. Watch this. Play dead! (The platypus monster doesn't move) Huh? Huh?
Constance: (Still using the quill) So I said, "Oh no, you di-in't!" (Growling) And she said-- What was that? (Opens the door) What's going on down there? (Goes down the stairs) I will go straight to the angry mob and tell on you. (Opens another door) Aha!
Dr. Phineastein: Oh, hi, Constance. (Holds up the Best Monster Contest poster) We're gonna enter the Best Monster Contest.
Constance: How are you gonna answer a monster contest? (The platypus monster walks behind Constance) You don't even have a monster!
Platypus monster: (Growls)
Constance: He's right behind me, isn't he?
Dr. Phineastein: Yeah!
Constance: (Screams) (Steps back and grabs Dr. Phineastein's shirt) I'm. Telling. Mob. (Runs off, screaming. She comes out of the castle on a bike) Angry mob, come quick! (Stops the bike) Phineastein and Ferbgor have created a giant green monster!
Man 2: Didn't you tell us last week that they created a 2-headed cow?
Constance: We're wasting time! (Bikes off) Now let's hurry before the monster gets away!

Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: (Back to normal) Jameson, I think I found the problem. I had the Brew-Inator set to "Fairy Princess" by mistake. (Turns the dial) You know, in hindsight, I question even including a (Turns on the Concoction Brew-Inator) "Fairy Princess" setting to begin with. (The Concoction Brew-Inator whirs then turns off. He grabs the cup) But, you know, live and learn. Cheers! (Drinks the potion) Hmm... Evil has an interesting flavor. I must tell my friend, Dr.-- (He grunts and screams as he turns into a monster)
Jameson: Hmm... It actual worked.
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: I know! I'm just as surprised as you are! Put her there, Jameson! Psych! (Laughs) (Jumps a few times) At last! A whole new world of evil has opened up to me! You know what this calls for, don't you?
Jameson: A rampage, sir?
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: Exactly! Oh, and clean your uniform. (Laughs) Evil!
(Song: "He's Eviler")
♪ He's public enemy number one ♪
♪ He's an evil, evil man ♪
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: That's me!
♪ He's got a diabolical sense of fun ♪
♪ And an evil, evil plan ♪
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: Well, not a plan so much.
♪ Oh, yes, He's eviler ♪
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: (While doing rabbit ears on two people having their picture taken) I'm winging it, actually.
♪ More evil than he was before ♪
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: That's right.
♪ Yes, He's eviler ♪
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: I don't think that's word.
♪ And he's taking it door to door ♪
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: Oops, gotta go. (Chuckles) (Runs to Castle Phineastein) Evil! (Knocks the handle) (Evil laughing) Hyah! Got your nose! (Laughs) I got your... I... I... I really do have his nose. (The platypus monster is seen without his bill) Oops. Heh. Okay, okay. Well, we'll just put this back. (The platypus monster is seen with his bill, but slanted) There you go. Good as new.
Platypus monster: (Growls)
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: EVIL!!!!
(The platypus monster roars and breaks the doors. It runs after Jekyll Doofenshmirtz)
Phineastein: Oh great! (Puts on his hat and jacket) We really have to stop losing our monsters.
(Woman screaming)
Villager: Blimey! Look what's coming!
Villagers: (Screaming) Run!
Villager 2: (Walks to his balcony, seen wearing only his underwear) I'm finally cured of my irrational fear that a giant platypus will see me in my underpants. (The platypus monster walks by) It's even worse than I imagined!
(The platypus monster walks down the cemetery. The camera pans to an Isabella Lookalike, who puts a flower in the pond. The platypus monster walks up behind her and growls)
Isabella lookalike: Whatcha doin'?
(Outside a cave)
Dr. Phineastein: Hello? (Bats squeaking) (Camera pans to the inside of the cave, showing three monsters) Are there any monsters in there?
Monster: Shh.
Dr. Phineastein: No, I guess not.
(At Dr. Phineastein's lab)
Constance: It was right here! You have to believe me! A giant platypus! (Mob grumbling) Wait! Mob, look! (Picks up a poster) The Monster's Ball! (Turns the poster) This is where they must have gone. (They walks out of the castle) Follow me!
Isabella Lookalike: ♪ La la la la ♪ Whatcha doin'?
Dr. Phineastein: We're looking for a giant platypus monster. Have you seen one by any chance?
Isabella Lookalike: Funny you should ask. We spent the entire afternoon together. We went swimming, had a little lunch. Did you know he eats raw snails? Ew! I stuck to PB and J on whole wheat.
Dr. Phineastein: Where is he now?
Isabella Lookalike: He went into town to enter the Best Monster Contest.
Dr. Phineastein: (Grabs Ferbgor and shakes him) Of course that's where he went! What were we thinking? Come on! (They run off)
Isabella Lookalike: Goodbye then! Tell him to save me a dance!
(At the Best Monster Contest, the building doors open. Waltz music plays in the background. Contestants walk into the building, and so does the platypus monster)
Dr. Phineastein: Thinks for the lift, mister! (He and Ferbgor hop off) Let's go!

(Inside the building, distinct chattering is heard as the platypus monster walks by)
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: (Back to normal) Best monster, indeed. Wait till they get a load of pure evil! (Knocks off the punch bowl, cups and drink dispenser and puts the Concoction Brew-Inator on the table) We'll just adjust the dial, and-- (Turns around and notices the platypus monster. He gasps) Yah!
(The platypus monster chatters, and his bill slants. He grabs Jekyll, shakes him and punches him)
Contestant: Monster fight! (Starts a fight with a contestant dressed like a hippo. Soon everyone else starts fighting)
Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: (While being slammed on the floor) Really, really, I don't have your nose! Wait wait. Time out. Allow me one little drink before we continue. I'm parched, okay?

Dr. Phineastein: Here, boy! (At Ferbgor) I hope he hasn't gotten into any trouble.

Jekyll Doofenshmirtz: (Drinks a potion) (Chuckles) Just wait till my potion kicks in, you big, dumb monst-- (Grunts and turns into a fairy) What? But I-- I thought I had it set to-- (Flies to the Concoction Brew-Inator and turns the dial. The platypus monster grabs him and yelps. 2nd Flashback ends)
Doofenshmirtz: And, well, I forgot exactly what happens after that. (The lights come back on) Oh, hey, the lights! What do you know? (Gets up and stretches.. Perry also gets up and stretches) Oh, I got no time for my diabolical plan now. I've got the chiropractor at 4:00. (Walks Perry to the door) Could we pick it up tomorrow at, say, my evil scheme monologue? Good! (Camera zooms into him) But, you know, I wonder who actually did win the Best Monster Contest.

(Back in flashback)
Dr. Phineastein: Oh, there you are, platypus monster. (Camera pans to inside the building) And to think I worried you might get into some mischief.
(The platypus monster hacks up Jekyll Doofenshmirtz's wand)
Host: Ladies and gentlemen, we're ready to announce the winner of the Best Monster Contest.
Dr. Phineastein: Hey, we're just in time.
(Outside, Constance opens the building door. She looks around and smiles)
Constance: (Comes out of the building) Mob! It's here! The monster's in here!
Man: We're coming! Don't get your knickers in a twist.
Constance: (Walks into the building by the Concoction Brew-Inator) They are so busted! (Notices the Concoction Brew-Inator) Oh, refreshments! (Grabs the cup) This monster hunting is thirsty work. (Drinks a potion) That's a peculiar taste.
Jeremiah: Hey, Constance.
Constance: Oh, Jeremiah!
Jeremiah: I can't remember a day when you looked more beautiful. (Constance turns into a monster) Well, now I can.
Host: Ladies and Gentlemen, the winner of the Best Monster Contest is... (Camera pans to Constance as a spotlight shines on her) That!
(Two people of the Best Monster Contest give her flowers, and the other puts a crown on her)
Dr. Phineastein: Way to go, Constance! (Thumbs up) Good show!
Man: There it is!
Constance: Wait! No, no, no! I'm not the monster! (She screams, throws the flowers, and then runs through the wall. The mob chases after her)
Dr. Phineastein: Oh well. (Touches the platypus monster's hand) Win some, lose some, boy. (Camera zooms into him) You'll always be the biggest, baddest monster to us.
(The platypus monster smiles)
Isabella Lookalike: (Dressed in her contest outfit) I see you found your giant platypus.
Dr. Phineastein: That's right. And we'll never lose him again.
(Flashback ends)
Grandpa Reg: And that is why there are pumpkins.
Phineas: Um, Grandpa, you were telling us about a giant platypus monster.
Grandpa Reg: Ooh, that sounds exciting! Tell me about that.
Phineas: But you were-- I mean-- I didn't-- (Sighs) (The lights come back on) I've got nothing. Ferb?
Ferb: Platypus monsters are the only monsters to lay eggs.



(Scene opens up showing the Jefferson County Museum of Contemporary Art.)
Tour Guide: Let's continue our tour! Over here, we have the work of the great environmental installation artist Beppo Brown.
Django: That's my Dad!
Tour Guide: As Django can tell you, his father Beppo is famous for his monumentalist recreations of everyday objects.
(Camera pans right)
Phineas: Wow, Django, it's so cool that your dad makes such huge things! Look at that giant toothbrush! And that giant dental floss. (Pans down) It's even been used. Whoa! And how about that giant baby?
Django: My Dad didn't make that.
(Woman walks to the giant baby and walks her away)
Linda: Django, isn't that your Dad over there?
(People chattering)
Django: Yeah! I'm gonna go say hi!
Beppo: You're taking it too literally. It's the juxtaposition of the doughnuts and the mountains that--
Django: Hey, Dad!
Beppo: Hi, Django! How are you're friends enjoying the tour?
Django: They love it! Wanna hang out with us?
Beppo: Uh, sorry, bud. But I gotta answer a few questions for these people and talk to them about my new project, but I promise I'll catch up with you just as soon as I can. Have fun!
Tour Guide: Okay, folks. (Camera zooms out) Please take some time to look at Beppo's fabulous exhibit! Oh, and don't miss his newest addition, "Doughnuts Over the Mountain", which can be seen from the viewing platform.
Phineas: Cool! Let's check it out.
Linda: I'd like to see the giant mascara brush again. What do you say, Candace?
Candace: Where's the giant exit sign? (Sighs) I'd rather be at home with Perry.
Linda: What do you suppose Perry does when we leave him at home?
(cut to Perry on the couch)
(Melodramatic music playing)
Man: I love you, my darling.
Woman: No, I love you more than you love me.
Man: I hate you. (Hugs woman)
(Perry blows nose)
(TV Static)
Major Monogram: Sorry to bother you on your day off, Agent P.
(TV Static; Perry changes the channel)
Woman: I love you!
Man: I thought you hated me!
(TV Static)
Major Monogram: Agent P, you've got to concentrate. It's Doofenshmirtz again. He's expecting a visit from his old, evil science teacher, Dr. Gevaarlijk. You must get over there pronto. Those two together are a bad combination. Don't worry about your stories, we'll tape them for you.
(Perry knocks off a bag of chips and puts on his fedora)
♪ Perry! ♪
(cut to Phineas, Ferb, and Django)
Phineas: Wow! Your Dad's exhibit is really amazing! I can see where you get your artistic talent from, Django.
Django: Oh, I don't know, Phineas. I made this for my Dad, but it hardly compares to his stuff.
Phineas: This is a great painting! Your Dad would love this.
Django: But it's so small, and everything my Dad makes is so big.
Phineas: Why don't you just paint something bigger? Look out there, Django. Your father's display just happens to be right next to the Unpainted Desert. And that gives me an idea. (to Ferb) Ferb, we're gonna need some really big art supplies.
Django: Hey, we can use my Dad's old exhibit! He called it (Flips a light switch) "Really Big Art Supplies".
(cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Doorbell rings)
Doofenshmirtz: Dr. Gevaarlijk already? (Opens door) Oh, oh, it's just you, Perry the Platypus. I don't have much time today. You see, my old evil science professor is visiting, and we've always had a rather strained relationship. (Puts down a chair) I think it's best expressed through song. (Presses a button on a remote and the chair traps Perry) Tell me what you think, but no pressure.
(Lights dim)
(Song: Impress My Professor)
♪ Back in class, Evil 101 ♪
♪ I always had so much fun ♪
♪ Though the one who advised me, openly despised me ♪
♪ Still, I always tried to be number one ♪
♪ Well, I wanted a mentor to share my world view ♪
♪ But I got a tormentor, I was hated, it's true ♪
♪ Now I have one more chance, and it could mean my advancement ♪
♪ So there's only one thing I must do: ♪
♪ I must impress my professor ♪
Singers: ♪ He's got to be good ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I must impress my professor ♪
Singers: ♪ He's misunderstood ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Ooh, ooh ♪
Singers: (At the same time) ♪ He needs validation for his evil creation ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Like any good evil scientist would ♪
♪ I... must... impress my professor to be a success ♪
Singers: (At the same time) ♪ He... must... impress his professor to be a success ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Or I will still be a flunky, a diploma-less monkey ♪
Singers: (At the same time) ♪ Or he will still be a flunky, a diploma-less monkey ♪
All: ♪ In the eyes of this person ♪
♪ Whose opinion may worsen ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ If my evil invention's not great ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I must impress my professor ♪
Singers: ♪ Impress his professor ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I must impress my professor♪
Singers: ♪ Impress his professor ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I must impress my professor ♪
All: ♪ Before it's too late! ♪
(Perry claps, and the lights go back up)
Doofenshmirtz: So, now you know my plan. (Footsteps approaching) C-Can you hold on a second? I've got to go settle up with the dancers. (to Dancer) Okay, so you guys are all union, right? (Signs check and rips it out of checkbook) All right, here you go. And... Hey, you know, when I'm done with this thing, maybe you and I could, uh... (Dancer walks out of room) Uh, okay, okay. I'll call you! (At Perry) I think I got a shot there.
(Camera pans to Perry, who rolls his eyes)
(cut to the Unpainted Desert)
Django: So this is the famous Unpainted Desert.
Phineas: Not for long!
(As the Phineas and Ferb Theme plays, Django, Phineas and Ferb jump on a trampoline, showing them flying in the air and landing on paint tubes that are blue, red and green. They randomly jump on the paint tubes. Next, Ferb is jumping on the trigger of a giant aerosol spray can. Phineas thumbs up and the hose sprays blue paint, spraying the Unpainted Desert. Then a helicopter with a giant paint roller goes along the blue paint showing red paint. Django, Phineas and Ferb do this, as the camera switches scene with purple paint. A crane with a paintbrush moves with green paint, and Phineas pumps a heavy water balloon and gives it to Django. He puts it on and launches the catapult, and more water balloons are shown splatting different colors. Django surfs on a giant paintbrush with blue paint, then Phineas with yellow paint, then Ferb with green paint. 3 colors splat against the camera as the theme song ends)
Django: Thanks, guys! I think I can show it to my Dad now.
Phineas: (Showing the finished painting) It's not finished until you sign it!
Django: You're right! We should all sign it.
(cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
(Knocking)
Doofenshmirtz: (Gasps) My professor is here! (Laughs as he walks to the door) Now, Perry the Platypus, you will tremble before the mighty, (Opens door) Dr. Gevaarlijk!
Dr. Gevaarlijk: Hello, Heinz. My, look how big you've gotten. (Walks off) Of course you still have that slouch.
Doofenshmirtz: Dr. Gevaarlijk, so good to see you.
Dr. Gevaarlijk: Oh, ja, I've come all the way from Gimmelshtump for chit-chat. So, show me what you're doing.
Doofenshmirtz: I am sure you will be most impressed with my latest evil inventions. (They walk into a room) Here, we have the Deflate-Inator.
Dr. Gevaarlijk: Hmm... Did it work?
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, well... No, not really, but I-- Here we have the Drill-Inator!
Dr. Gevaarlijk: Did anyone get hurt with that?
Doofenshmirtz: Mmm... No, just-- Just me. (Chuckles) But, uh...
Dr. Gevaarlijk: Did any of these actually work?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, (Laughs) No, not really. But follow me. (They walk to the kitchen) I do something impressive over... There. My brand-new... Blender-Inator! (Opens the lid and puts a Granny Smith apple in the Blender-Inator) Spelling doom for even the toughest of apples! (Turns it on) Bow down to me, Granny Smith!
Dr. Gevaarlijk: Ja, I'm sure if I was a pomaceous fruit, I would be trembling. Where is your Phone-Inator? I need to call a Cab-Inator'.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, uh, it's, uh, just, uh... (Dr. Gevaarlijk walks away and he stops her) Wait, wait! Don't go. Let me show you this; my very own nemesis.
Dr. Gevaarlijk: Oh Heinz. How can he be your nemesis? (Camera zooms out showing Perry is his normal pet mode) He's doesn't even have a hat.
Doofenshmirtz: No no, I made that mistake a couple times, too, but that's him, I swear!
Dr. Gevaarlijk: In your letters, you said your nemesis was a (Takes out a letter) suave, semi-aquatic personification of unstoppable dynamic fury.
Doofenshmirtz: He is! No, you've just got to see him in action. Here. I'll let him go. (Presses a button on a remote and the chair trap releases) Go ahead, (Puts the remote away in his coat) Perry the Platypus. Thwart my plans. Come on. (Crosses his arms) Let me have it! (Pause) Let me have it, big guy!
Dr. Gevaarlijk: Heinz.
Doofenshmirtz: Get thwartin'!
Dr. Gevaarlijk: He's just a platypus. They don't do much, you know?
Doofenshmirtz: No, no! Wait, wait, wait, wait! He's just about to do something. Wait for it!
(Perry chatters)
Doofenshmirtz: Hmm. I guess it's just a platypus. I could have sworn that was him.
Dr. Gevaarlijk: Heinz, this is just sad.
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, one more thing. (Walks her to a different room) This is going to blow your socks off.
(cut to Candace)
Candace: I know the boys must be around here somewhere. (Notices the viewing platform) Wow, what a view! Well, may as well see what this doughnut nonsense is all about. (Walks to the telescope and looks to it) Wow, it's actually pretty cool! (Moves the telescope to the Unpainted Desert) So this over there must be the Unpainted Des-- (Camera zooms out as Candace notices the painting) Hey, that doesn't look unpainted to me! (Zooms in on the painting autographs) PHINEAS AND FERB?!! (takes the telescope away from her eye and smiles) Oooooooooh....BUSTED!!!
(Song: Busted Conga)
♪ Busted, busted, busted! ♪
♪ Busted, busted, busted! ♪
(runs off) Mom, Mom, Mom!
(cut to Django)
Django: Dad, Dad, Dad!
(cut to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Doctor, Doctor, Doctor! Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to shout. To honor your visit, I will blow up the moon!
Dr. Gevaarlijk: Blow up the moon? But that would mean--
Doofenshmirtz: Yes! No more stupid songs about moons.
Dr. Gevaarlijk: (to the camera) I do despise moon-related songs. (to Doofenshmirtz) Continue.
Doofenshmirtz: It takes a lot of power, so I can only fire it once, but don't worry. (Leans on his ray) I have it planned down to the last-- (The ray is pushed downward. It fires a laser and it hits a dam. The water starts flowing from the dam) (While looking through binoculars) Oops! (Chuckles) No more songs about dams?
Dr. Gevaarlijk: Oh, but I like a good toe-tapping dam song.
(The water that leaked floods through the woods. It then reaches the Unpainted Desert and washes away the painting)
(cut to Candace)
Candace: Mom, you've gotta see this! (Runs off)
Linda: Well, at least she's excited about art.
(cut to Django)
Django: Dad, you've gotta see this! (Tries to tug him from the media group)
(cut to Candace, Lawrence, and Linda)
Candace: (With her eyes closed) Take a look at that!
Linda: Wow!
Lawrence: Donuts over the mountain.
Candace: No, no, the other thing.
Linda: Oh, I see what you mean, Candace. The natural beauty of the Unpainted Desert is like a work of art!
Candace: Mom, there is nothing natural about the-- (Turns her head and notices the painting disappeared) Huh? But...but...but...
Phineas: Hey, Mom! Hey, Dad!
Linda: There you boys are!
Django: Okay, Dad, this way! It's time for your big sur... prise? (Looks around for the painting and takes out the small picture) But, um....
Beppo: Whatcha got there, Django?
Django: Well, I made this for you, but (Beppo takes the picture) it's kinda small compared to what you do. It's not real art.
Beppo: It's beautiful, son. (Shakes his hair) You're a real artist.
Django: Really?
Beppo: With your permission, (Holds up the picture) there's a very special place I'd like to put this. Come on, bud.
(cut to a fridge)
Phineas: Wow. There's no higher place of honor than the fridge.
(Beppo puts the picture on the giant fridge)
Ferb: Especially a giant fridge.
(cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
Doofenshmirtz: (Depressed) Oh, Dr. Gevaarlijk, today was supposed to be the day that I impressed you (Walks away) with the enormity of my evil schemes and finally earn your respect.
Dr. Gevaarlijk: Oh Heinz. Evil doesn't always have to be on a big scale. You can spread evil in the little things you do everyday.
Doofenshmirtz: (Touched) You're right.
Dr. Gevaarlijk: (Walks to Doof) But sadly, you can't even do that! You're a total failure! You sicken me, Heinz Doofenshmirtz! (Walks away) Gevaarlijk out! (Slams door)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow. That could have gone better. (Perry walks up) Oh, there you are, Perry the Platypus. Oh, you... You saw that, huh? Yes. Of course. (Pause) You think I'm evil, right? (Perry smiles) Thank you, Perry the Platypus. (Camera pans to Perry and him looking at the moon) Thank you.

End Credits
(Song: Impress My Professor)
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I... must... impress my professor to be a success ♪
Singers: (At the same time) ♪ He... must... impress his professor to be a success ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Or I will still be a flunky, a diploma-less monkey ♪
Singers: (At the same time) ♪ Or he will still be a flunky, a diploma-less monkey ♪
All: ♪ In the eyes of this person ♪
♪ Whose opinion may worsen ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ If my evil invention's not great ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I must impress my professor ♪
Singers: ♪ Impress his professor ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I must impress my professor ♪
Singers: ♪ Impress his professor ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I must impress my professor ♪
All: ♪ Before it's too late! ♪



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Phineas: Hey, Dad! Whatcha watching?
Lawrence: Oh, it's a favorite kids show from when I was a lad. Oh, they don't make this anymore.
(Song: Pinhead Pierre Theme)
♪ Pinhead Pierre ♪
♪ Has the smallest head of which I'm aware ♪
♪ It's about the size and shape of a pear ♪
♪ Everywhere the children stare ♪
♪ Life's cruel and unfair ♪
♪ To Pinhead Pierre! ♪
Pinhead Pierre: No pointing and laughing, kids! Because now it's time for another adventure of Captain Implausible!
Narrator: When we last saw our hero, the Earth was being threatened by evil space aliens.
Alien #1: Bow-chicka-wow-wow.
Alien #2: Chicka-chicka-choo-wop.
Phineas: Captain Implausible?
Lawrence: That's right! He possesses virtually every super power there is.
Captain Implausible: (Throws rocket at UFO, which blows up)
Crowd: (Cheering)
Pinhead Pierre: Wasn't that great, kids? Ya can't beat Captain Implausible. It's impossible!
Lawrence: (Chuckles) That was the best! And I happen to own the single greatest collection of Pinhead Pierre paraphernalia in all the world.
Phineas: Gosh.
Lawrence: Oh, yeah. I'm not proud.
Pinhead Pierre: Time for the question of the day. Thank you, Debbie. And the question of the day is, "If you could have one superpower, what would it be?"
Lawrence: (pauses video) You see, right there. Modern cartoon shows never ask the really big questions, do they?
Phineas: That's it! We could have as many superpowers as we want if we were cartoons! Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
(He and Ferb jumps off the couch then runs off.)
Lawrence: (unpauses video) Oh, well, at least Perry will watch these with me. Won't you, Perry? Perry?

(Scene shifts to the backyard. An entrance opens without warning and Perry falls into a hole. Inside the chute, he reverts to agent mode then puts on his fedora. He soon enters his lair.)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P. I apologize for using the emergency chute and, uh, for not telling you we had an emergency chute. But there was an emergency. Shoot! (Laughs) Sorry. (Clears throat) What I'm about to say is highly classified, Agent P. The last century, the forces of good and evil have been locked in a desperate race to harness and control the limitless power of dance.
Carl: Dance! How was that, sir?
Major Monogram: You came in a little late there, Carl. Get back over there. We'll try it again. (Clears throat) Blah, blah, blah, the power of dance.
Carl: Dance! Better?
Major Monogram: Early. Anyhoo, much to our horror, it appears the side of evil has won. Have you seen the latest issue of Evil Beat! magazine? Dr. Doofenshmirtz has created a ray that causes people to dance uncontrollably. It's up to you to stop him, Agent P. But be careful. It's a known fact that no one - no one - has ever defeated evil while dancing. Good luck, Agent P.

(Back in the backyard)
Phineas: Excellent. We'll be up and running in no time. (Cow moos) Hey, sis.
Candace: Hold it right there, busters. (Truck beeping) Before I squeal on you rats, and you know I must, will you please tell me what's going on here?
Phineas: We're building an animation studio so we can make our very own cartoon show.
Candace: I thought cartoons were all made by computer.
Phineas: Yeah, that's right. This is just for show. This is where the magic happens. It's the PF-5000 Animatron. All you do is tell the machine what you want. I'd like my cartoon character to have the power to be everywhere at once. I'll be called Multi Man! And Ferb would have a utility belt and use lots of crazy gadgets. He'll be called, um, Ferb Guy.
Candace: Well, I would have super mind control and use telepathy and telekinesis to keep you super-dweebs under control with your lame-o superpowers.
Phineas: We could call you Control Freak. Come on, let's watch. (Music instrumental, whirring) We start with a few crude drawings. (Chickens clucking) We compile those into a storyboard, and it all gets fed into the computer. Then we add a little story and some pithy dialog. (Monkey screeches, Cat meows, Parrot noise) The Executron analyzes it and makes a few notes.
The Executron: Does not track. Whose story arc is this anyway? This one is not one of my favorites.
Phineas: The Artbot addresses the notes.
The Artbot: (Beeping, Glass smashing) No more notes. No more notes. (Crashes)
Phineas: Few changes are made, then it goes to timing. (Chanting) The shreds get fed into here, and somehow it all comes together here in the Animatic. Check it out. We're super dudes.
Candace: You guys are super busted as soon as I tell Mom.
Isabella: Hi, Phineas.
Buford: Whatcha do-- (Isabella elbows him) Ugh!
Isabella: Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Come into the Phineas and Ferb Studios, and we'll show you.
Buford: Hey, Isabella, about that "Whatcha doin'?" back there-
Isabella: Up, up, up! We'll talk about it later.
Phineas: Over here is where we add sound effects. Did you know that for years, a balloon was used for the majority of sounds you hear in cartoons? Ferb will demonstrate. Ferb?
Ferb: (Ding)
(Balloon squeaking, Poke, Flying noise, Running noise, Gun shoots, Cat meowing, Gaming sounds, Clang, Drill, Drum solo)
(Applause)
(Ferb blows on balloon)
Baljeet: May we be in the show, too?
Phineas: Absolutely. A very wise and small-headed man once asked, "If you could have any superpower, what would it be?"
Isabella: I would harness the power of rainbows, unicorns and sweetness to defend all that is good and just. I'd become... The Rainbow.
Phineas: Wow, that's great. What about you, Buford?
Buford: It's an interesting question you pose, as it reveals not only one's impulses and desires, but one's deepest fears as well. I'll go with Belchman.
♪ Belchman! ♪
You know, fights crimes with different burps.
Phineas: Cool. How 'bout you, Baljeet?
Baljeet: Isabella took mine.
Phineas: Hmm. School seems to be very important to you. Books, being responsible and studious, getting good grades...
Baljeet: Oh! That's it! I will become Hanuman Man, a flying blue monkey that can grow as massive as he desires to crush all in his way!
Phineas: (pause) Fun choice.
That was perfect, guys. Now let's record the voices for the scene where the heroes ask the villain for help.
Candace: Phineas, I –
Phineas: Hi, Candace. You're just in time to help us record the voices.
Candace: There is no way on Earth I'd ever help you.
Phineas: Cut and print. That's why we call her "One-Take Flynn".

(Song: Ready for the Bettys)
♪ Best thing... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (Singing along) ♪ ...You can do ♪
♪ Better be ready, 'cause The Bettys are ready for YOU! ♪
(Traps Perry with his leg warmer)
(Laughs maniacally) Something tells me that you might have seen this month's Evil Beat! magazine, eh? Wait, wait, wait. Look. It's like there's two of me. You see? Hmm? Huh? I suppose you're wondering how I harnessed the power of dance. Well, to be honest, it was not so much on purpose. What happened was my dryer broke, so I was trying to create a ray that would instantly dry my clothes. But instead, well, look.
(Bouncy music)
Still sopping wet, by the way. Turns out anything I hit with the ray starts dancing. For instance, a dryer repairman.
Dryer Repairman: Help! I can't stop getting down! Ohh!
Doofenshmirtz: Quiet, you.
Dryer Repairman: Ah, sweet, horrible self-expression through movement!
Doofenshmirtz: So I figured as long as I invented the thing, I might as well use it to whip up a little evil.
(Perry chomps on leg warmer while Doofenshmirtz is talking)
I set it up right over there next to the– Ow! (Crashes through magazine cover; Ray charges up) Hey, you know, it cost me a lot to have that printed up! Oh! (Laser fires; Bouncy music) To add insult to injury, the platypus is leading.

(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher home)
(People chattering)
Phineas: Well, it's all up to the Animatron 5000 now. (At the kids) Hiya, kids! You can stop laughing and pointing, because now it's time for - (Pants fall) Whoops. (Kids laughing) ...The new adventures of Team Improbable!
(Crowd cheers)
♪ Rainbow ♪
Phineas: The Rainbow.
♪ Hanuman Man ♪
Phineas: Hanuman Man.
♪ Multi Man ♪
Phineas: Multi Man.
♪ Ferb Guy ♪
Phineas: Ferb Guy.
♪ Belchman ♪ (belches)
Phineas: Belchman.
(Control Freak laughs evilly)
Phineas: ...Versus the Control Freak!
Control Freak: You're going down! Down, down, down!
(Control Freak zaps Team Improbable with her heat vision)
Control Freak: Ee-ee-ee-ee!
Candace: Oh, this is just out of control. Hello? Mom!
Linda: (Voicemail recording) Hi, this is Mom. Leave your psychotic rant about the boys when you hear the beep.
(Phone beeps)
Candace: Uhh! Mom, come home quick! There's a giant mob, I'm a super fiend, I'm roasting them with laser vision, and - Hey, what do you mean, "Psychotic rant"?
Pedro: Hey, look, everybody, it's the Control Freak.
(Booing/Hissing)
Candace: Has everyone gone crazy?! (to the boys) There you are, you worms!
Phineas: Isn't the show great?
Candace: Are you joking? How could you make me the evil villain? Now everybody hates me!
Phineas: Au contraire, big sister. You're the star of the show.
Candace: I am?
Phineas: The crowd loves you.
Candace: But they're booing and hissing.
Phineas: Of course they're booing and hissing. You're the villain. Right, Ferb?
Ferb: A hero is a hero, but everybody loves a great villain.
(Booing continues)
Candace: Really? Well, maybe I should go feel the love. (Puts head out of curtains, Tomatoes splatting) Love feels a lot like tomatoes.

(Scene shifts to D.E.I.)
(Music continues)
(Doofenshmirtz kicks Perry, swinging by the ray, firing a laser hitting a mirror, causing it to dance)

(Back in the backyard)
Control Freak: Oh, you'll never get away with this! You are SO busted!
(Crowd cheering)
Buford: (Laughs) We made a killing!
Phineas: But we weren't charging admission.
Buford: Ha-ha. Ha. Well, what are ya gonna do?
(Crowd cheering)
Phineas: Come on, everybody, let's take a bow.
(Cheering continues)
Candace: They like me! They really like me! (Gets hit by a tomato) Feeling the love again.

(Back at D.E.I.)
(Bouncy music)
Doofenshmirtz: You know, I'm getting pretty good at getting down. What do you think, huh? After all, everyone knows dancing is evil! Perry the Platypus, what are you doing? Stop with the conga line. We're doing the Macarena. Perry the Platypus, where are you going?
(-inator whirring; falls off balcony)
I don't believe it! You defeated evil while dancing! Curse you, Perry the Platypus.
(-inator fires a ray; explodes)

(At the Flynn-Fletcher home, the ray hits the studio, which causes it to start dancing.)
(Crowd gasps)
(Bouncy music)
Linda: Suddenly I feel like dancing. (Stops car)
(The studio and crowd congas out of the backyard, much to Candace's surprise.)
Well, I'm here. Now where's this "giant, animation studio"?
Candace: It got up, and it danced away.
Linda: It...what?
Candace: It got up, and it, danced away.
Linda: (flatly) It got up and danced away?
Candace: See? It even sounds crazy when you say it. I'll be in my room.






 We are doooomed!!
This article covers an essential topic and is in need of major additions and/or work. 
This page should be revised to bring it up to Phineas and Ferb Wiki standards found in the Manual of Style.
(January 5, 2016) 
Part I
(Phineas, Ferb and Perry are sitting under the tree in the backyard listening to the radio.)
Radio Announcer: It's another gorgeous summer day here in the Tri-State Area. Ladies, have you asked a date to the Night of the Falling Stars Girls-Choice Dance yet? It seems Danville's gone star-crazy waiting for the meteor shower tonight!
Phineas: A meteor shower? How cool is that? Just think: somewhere out in space there's a bunch of asteroids headed right for Earth!
Lawrence: Hey, boys? Boys? Oh there you are! Hey, look what I got for you online!
Phineas: Oh, cool! You named a star after us!
Lawrence: You're now the owners of a little piece of the universe!
Phineas: Did you get one for Candace too?
Lawrence: Well, I did. Yes, of course I did, although she doesn't really care about this stuff. Anyway, they're practically giving 'em away online! D'you know, it's even better than the Oklahoma land rush of 1889!
Linda: Ah, those corny history references made me fall for him in the first place. Vivian and I are off to our mahjong tournament. Have fun today, boys.
Lawrence: Okay, darling. Good luck.
Phineas: Good luck!
Lawrence: Well, what am I doing standing here when I can be out buying more stars?
Phineas: Hey, Ferb. Now that we own a star, we should go check it out! And how cool is space travel? The g-forces, eating dinner out of a tube, going to the bathroom without going to the bathroom, not to mention the weightlessness. Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today.

Candace: Uh, Jeremy, I was wondering, uh... if you'd like to go the Night of the Falling Stars Girls-Choice Dance with me.
Jeremy: With you? You've got to be kidding me. (He begins laughing)
(More and more people join in, until the entire world explodes)
Candace: (Talking on the phone) And that, Stacy, is why I can't ask Jeremy to the dance.
Stacy: You realize that's kind of a worse-case scenario, right?
Candace: That could very well happen. What if he says no? What if he laughs in my face?
Stacy: You can't let fear rule your life, Candace. Jeremy likes you. He's not gonna say no. Now, I'm gonna hang up, and when I do, I want you to call Jeremy. Don't man the phone, girl. Phone the man!
Candace: Yeah, I am not gonna let fear rule my life. (Dials number)
Stacy: (Muffled) Hello?
Candace: Stacy? Yeah, I can't do it.
(Song: "Let's Take a Rocket Ship to Space")
♪ Let's take a rocket ship to space ♪
♪ I hear it's a real swinging place ♪
♪ There isn't much air, or gravity there, ♪
♪ The stars will make your heart ra-ace ♪
♪ Let's take a rocket ship, let's take a rocket ship ♪
♪ Let's Take a Rocket Ship to Space! ♪
♪ Let's take a saucer to the stars ♪
♪ Look out moon, move over Mars ♪
♪ The martians all rock, to Basie and Bach ♪
♪ So bring your maracas and jazz guitars ♪
♪ Let's take a saucer to the stars ♪
♪ Let's take a rocket ship, a crazy three-staged rocket ship, ♪
♪ Let's take a rocket ship to space! ♪
Phineas: And this is Mission Control.
Isabella: Kinda small.
Phineas: Oh, it looks small on the outside. But Ferb really knows how to maximize space.
Isabella: Hey Phineas, can I ask you something? Will you go to the dance-
Katie: Excuse me Phineas, can I get you to sign some liability waivers?
Phineas: Sure thing. (To Isabella) Hold that thought, Isabella.
Isabella: Sure. No prob.
(Dramatic music plays as Phineas, Ferb, and Perry walk out in their spacesuits)
Isabella: Why are you guys walking so slow?
Phineas: Dramatic effect.
Isabella: You guys ready?
Phineas: (From inside the rocket) The star coordinates are pre-programmed. Let's light this candle.
Isabella: All systems go. Commence countdown.
Gretchen: (In a deep voice) Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, (A bird crashes into rocket) two, one. (She clears throat, then peaks in her normal voice) Ignition.
(Isabella presses the launch button, but the rocket engines sputter, and it fails to take off)
Phineas: Looks like we need a Jump-start.
Candace: Stacy, what if while I'm asking him, a satellite falls out of orbit and crashes into the— Wait a minute, what is going on out there? I'll call you back, Stacy.
Phineas: Positive to positive, negative to ground, right?
Candace: (Climbing into Phineas and Ferb's spaceship) Brothers. Does every sister have to deal with this? No. Do I have to deal with this? Of course. You'd think I'd have better things to do and other things to worry about. Every single day, it's one thing after another. But do Mom and Dad see it? No. Do they get in trouble? No. And another thing– (She enters the cockpit, to find Phineas and Ferb aren't there)
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: Got the remote?
(Ferb pressed the button to start teh car, and the rocket lifts off, taking the car with it)
Phineas: Oops.
(Candace screams)
Isabella: Uh, guys? I think you should see this.
(Candace continues screaming)
Phineas: Candace? How'd you get in there?
Candace: (Yelling) I can't hear you! My cheeks are covering my ears!
Phineas: We should probably help her. Good thing we built two rockets.
Isabella: Wow, it's pretty.
Phineas: It was for Candace to see her star. I don't know why she took ours.
(A satellite cuts through the wires connecting Candace's ship and the car)
Astronaut: (In a space shuttle, preparing to dock with the space station) Uh, ready to park this puppy?
(The car lands where the astronauts were intending to dock))
Astronaut: Oh, it's bad enough this happens on earth. Now space?!
Phineas: We're coming to get you, Candace! Hey, she's coming in! (Speaking to candace over video phone) Candace, don't worry. It's pre-programmed. As long as you don't start hitting buttons randomly, everything will be okay.
Candace: I can't hear you! I'm too busy hitting buttons randomly!
(Phineas and Ferb glance at each other, exasperatedly)
Phineas: By the way, Candace, where's Perry?
Candace: I don't know. He must've gotten off before we launched.
Major Monogram: Agent P, afraid I have terrible news. It's Doofenshmirtz. He's built a space station, and due to budget cuts, we have no way of getting you into space. Now, I've contacted the president, and... Agent P, are you in space? Nice work. You are always one step ahead. Your mission is to find Doofenshmirtz and stop him, Agent P.
♪ Perry! ♪
Monogram: (Floating in space) Agent P? Agent P?
Candace: Uh, guys, what are all these red flashing things heading toward my rocket?
Phineas: Yeah, those are asteroids.
Candace: Asteroids? (She screams)
(Phineas flies their rocket through the asteroids)
Phineas: Just like Beggar's Canyon back home. We're catching up to her!
(Candace screams a few more times as two of her rockets are knocked off by steroids))
Phineas: Oop, she lost her engines. Let's go get her.
(Perry gets sucked into a a spaceship designed as a robot torso)
Doofenshmirtz: I can't believe it's Perry the Platypus. (He traps Perry in an ice cube tray) Hohohohoho Perry the Platypus, what are you doing here? I thought you guys were having budget cuts. Well, it just shows to go ya. Hey, let's walk and talk. So, you're probably wondering why my space station has two enormous arms. Well, what you should be wondering is why it has two giant hands! Ha ha ha ha!
Doofenshmirtz: (Flashing back) See, during my teen years, I was very adept at hand shadows. It was great for entertaining at parties, and for meeting Fräuleins. But then one day, there was a new puppeteer in town. His name was Hans, and his hands were huge. We called him "Huge Hands Hans". His puppetry was garbage, but unfortunately, it was good enough for my Fräulein. I lost her to a boy with bigger fingers, and I never did a shadow puppet again.
Doofenshmirtz: Until tonight! (He laughs) And when the sun rises in one hour; see, right over there; Then everyone in the Tri-State Area will see my enormous hand shadows on the moon!

Phineas: There she is! Uh-oh, this isn't good. Candace, you're in a decaying orbit.
Candace: What does that even mean?
Phineas: You just need to get to the spacesuit on the hook behind you.
Candace: Okay.
Phineas: Now put it on.
Candace: Okay, I'm putting it on.
Phineas: Now walk over to the door.
Candace: Okay, I'm at the door.
Phineas: Now just open it and take a little spacewalk to our ship.
Candace: What?
Phineas: Candace, there's nothing to be scared of.
Candace: Nothing to be scared of? There's the never-ending, icy-cold, soul-sucking darkness of space!
Phineas: I hear negative!
Candace: There is no way I'm going out there.
Phineas: We're just a few yards away. You can't let fear rule your life.
Candace: Of course I can. That's my thing.
Phineas: Candace, just calm down and take Ferb's hand.
Candace: Ferb's hand? (Ferb grabs her hand, and leaves Candace's ship, dragging Candace along, back to Phineas's ship) Thanks, guys.
Phineas: Mission Control? Come in, Mission Control.
Isabella: Phineas, did you find Candace?
Phineas: Yes. We've got her, and we're on our way home.
Isabella: Excellent. So, Phineas, speaking of home, there's that dance tonight, and– (An alarm begins beeping)
Phineas: Hold that thought, Isabella. I think we're out of fuel.
Candace: What? Find some fuel somewhere and let's go.
Phineas: That's gonna be hard. We're kinda nowhere.
Candace: You mean we're stuck here in the empty void of space?
(The spaceship approaches a large light source)
Candace: Phineas... what is that?
Phineas: I have no idea.
Astronaut: Uh, will the owner of a red station wagon please move your vehicle? You are in a shuttle loading and unloading zone only.

Part II
(Phineas, Ferb and Candace's ship continues moving toward the light source)
Candace: What is that?
Phineas: I have no idea. (reading the signs that was emitting the light) Milk shakes? Wow, that was so bright, I thought it was a star. Maybe we'll find some fuel here. (The rocket lands) Are you sure you don't wanna come with us? Ferb says the oxygen levels are just like Earth.
Candace: Uh... I'm sure. Just find some fuel, and let's get out of here!
(In the Bar)
Bartender: One sarsaparilla coming up.
Alien: I love you, man.
(The other alien punches the first with it's tongue)
Phineas: Hi. I'm Phineas, and this is Ferb.   
(The music in the bar stops playing)
Bartender: Wait a second. You're Phineas and Ferb?
Phineas: Yeah.
Bartender: Hey, everyone, it's the new owners!
(The aliens cheer)
Phineas: New owners? Those coordinates are right here. Ferb, this is our star. Wow. That sign really is bright.
Alien 2: I told you they'd show up.
Bartender: So now that you own the joint, what do you think of it? I know, it's a little run-down.
Phineas: I have a few ideas for this place.
(Boys laugh)
(The Earth blows up)
Isabella: You do realize that's a worst-case scenario, right, Candace? But I do feel for ya. I've been trying to ask Phineas to that same dance all–
Candace: Phineas. What's taking those boys so long? They were supposed to find fuel ages ago. Later, Isabella.
Isabella: Sure. No prob.
Doorman: (In a Cockney accent) Stop right there.
Candace: Let me in, buster.
Doorman: Phineas and Ferb don't take kindly to gatecrashers.
Candace: I'm no gatecrasher; I'm their sister!
Doorman: Ooh, sorry about that. Honest mistake. You won't mention this to them, eh?
Alien 3: Uh, I'm their sister.
(Song: "Shooting Star Milkshake Bar")
♪ Yeah ♪
♪ There's a jumpin' little rock in the outer spiral arm ♪
♪ May not be pretty, but it's got a lotta charm ♪
♪ It's a Shooting Star Milkshake Bar, yeah ♪
♪ It's not a nebula, it's not a quasar ♪
♪ It's a Shooting Star Milkshake Bar ♪
♪ At the speed of light, you know you're never too far ♪
♪ From the meatiest meteor that you'll ever find ♪
♪ In this big ol' galactic void ♪
♪ You got to shake, shake-shake, shake your asteroid ♪
♪ Shake, shake-shake, shake your asteroid ♪
Phineas: Hey, Candace, guess what? This is our star!
Candace: I thought we were getting out of here.
Phineas: Ferb and I thought we'd fix up the place. You know, pride of ownership? Take a load off. Have a shake.
Alien 4: I can't do it.
Candace: Uh, are you okay?
Alien 4: No. The bicentennial Taming of the Yarks Dance is tonight, and I wanna ask the girl of my dreams, but what if she says no? What if she laughs in my face? What if her friends laugh at me? What if her friends' friends laugh at me?
Candace: Aren't you being a little overly dramatic? I mean, really, what's the worst thing that could happen?
Alien 4: Uh... the entire planet could blow up?
Candace: Please. I think you should just ask her to the dance.
Alien 4: Really? You think so?
Candace: I do. Really.
Alien 4: Well... Okay. (He takes a breath) Here goes nothin'. Ahem. Sylvia... will you go to the dance with me?
Sylvia: (Appearing, attached to his head) Well, of course. I've been waiting for you to ask me. I mean, even if you asked someone else, I'd still have to go with you.
Candace: See? That wasn't so hard.
Phineas: So... Candace?
Candace: Oh, I get it. Big lesson. Yeah, well, I learned that it wouldn't be hard to ask Jeremy out if he was growing out of the back of my head. Now you find us some fuel, and let's get outta here.
Phineas: Wow. I just wanted to know if she liked the shake. (to the bartender) You don't know where we could find some rocket fuel, do ya?
Bartender: Rocket fuel? It's all Ronaldo drinks.
Ronaldo: (In an Italian accent) Only imported rocket fuel.
(Outside Ferb fills Ronaldo's cup with fuel, then finishes fueling the ship)
Ronaldo: Grazie.
Candace: Let's go!
Phineas: Hey, Ferb, I'm sensing Candace wants to leave.
(Ferb spins the nuzzle back into it's resting place)
Candace: Will you cut that out?
Astronaut: Okay, that's it. I'm not waiting anymore. (The two astronauts lift the car away) Great. Let's park the shuttle. (A flying saucer lands) Oh, come on! (He throws his helmet off in fury, and quickly puffs up because of it) Uh-oh. I think I should go inside now.
Candace: Why are we stopping?
Phineas: I don't get it. We have plenty of fuel. The battery's worn down. Candace, were you using the videophone without the engine running?
Candace: Yeah. Was that a bad thing?
Phineas: If by "bad", you mean we're stranded in the never-ending, icy-cold, soul-sucking darkness of space... then, yeah.
Doofenshmirtz: Soon, Perry the Platypus, the sun will be at full strength, and my plan will come to fruition. Unless, of course, it's overcast... (An alarm begins beeping) Eh, but what are you going to do? Proximity alert? Why are there so many people in space? What's up with that?
Isabella: You need another jump-start? Candace, didn't you have the engine running when we were talking on the videophone?
Candace: Am I the only person who doesn't know this?
Phineas: So, any suggestions, Isabella?
Isabella: Sensors are indicating a massive power source in your area.
Phineas: Where? I don't see it. (Doofenshmirtz's ship rises behind Phineas, Ferb, and Candace's) Wait a minute. I see it. It's Mom's car! We're saved! Ferb, toss me the starter remote. (Ferb shrugs) Ooh, that's right. We left it at home.
Candace: What's a starter remote?
Phineas: Well, legally we're too young to start a car. We get away with it by using a starter remote. But you, Candace, have your learner's permit. Looks like you'll be doing the jump-starting.
Candace: What? Oh, no, no, no, no, no. Can't you guys just find some old nuts and bolts lying around and jerry-rig up some kind of machiney-deely-bob and get us out of this situation?
Ferb: Candace, we are just kids.
Candace: ( She groans) Why am I arguing this? Hand me the suit.
(Candace get's into the suit)
Phineas: Let me turn on the oxygen.
(Oxygen flows into Candace's suit, inflating her rear-end)
Candace: Does this suit make my butt look big?
Phineas: Yes. Yes, it does. Maybe I had the pressure up too high.
Candace: Never mind. I'll fix it. (She backs up, and transfers the inflation to her hands) Well, I guess this is preferable.
Phineas: You can do this, Candace.
Candace: I can do this. I can do this. I can do this. I can't do this. I can't do this.
Doofenshmirtz: (Watching) What is this? Now, why would an astronaut wear such big gloves? Wait a second! (He gasps) Huge Hands Hans?! It's Huge Hands Hans! He found me out in space! Oh, you're not going to steal a job from me this time, Huge Hands Hans! Nor my Fräuleins!
Candace: How did it go again, Phineas?
Phineas: It's positive to positive.
Candace: Positive to positive.
Phineas: Negative to ground.
Candace: What ground? We're in space!
Phineas: No, no. Ground just means any piece of metal.
Candace: Any piece of metal? Well, then why do they call it ground? Why don't they just call it me- (She turns around and sees Doofenshimrtz's spaceship reaching to grab her)
Phineas: What's wrong, Candace? Candace? Candace, what's wro- (Phineas sees the ship as well) Oh. Danville, we have a problem.
Isabella: Okay, girls, turn to the giant robot section of your Fireside Girls manuals.
Phineas: Isabella, anything?
Isabella: Still looking.
(Candace screams as the robot grabs her)
Phineas: Isabella!
Isabella: Here it is. Okay. According to this, you should get the heck out of there!
Phineas: Great, but we've got no power. She didn't connect the— Candace, negative to ground!
Candace: What?
Phineas: Negative to ground, Candace! Negative to ground!
Candace: Oh, you mean negative to metal! (She attaches the jump lead to the robot, thereby giving the rocket a jumpstart) I did it! I did it!
Phineas: She did it!
(The rocket powers up and flies off, with Candace and the car in tow)
Doofenshmirtz: No! Huge Hands Hans is getting away! Not this time, freak fingers!
(Doofenshmirtz chases after them) Just you wait, Huge Hands Hans! You can run, but you can't hide! You know, he can run, but he can't– (Perry's ice tray smacks Doofenshmirtz across the face) Ow! Wait a second. How did you--? Oh, I see. That's it— (Perry, with the remote control launches back at Doofenshmirtz) That's not fair! Oh, that's it, It's on now!
(As Perry and Doofenshmirtz fight, the arms of the robot swing, matching Doofenshmirtz's movements)
Phineas: Isabella, I hate to bother you again.
Isabella: Oh, no bother.
Phineas: You got anything else? The robot's gaining on us.
Isabella: It says they don't corner well.
Phineas: They don't corner well? Wait a sec. Candace, fasten your seat belt. We're taking a little detour. (They steer the spaceship into the asteroid belt, swing Candace around) Now, how is she passing us?
Candace: Phineas, what are you doing?! (She screams)
Phineas: See? Corners like a dream.
(Doofenshmirtz's ship gets hit by some of the meteorites, punching through the wall of the ship. Perry escapes out of a hole, as a large asteroid moves to strike the ship)
Doofenshmirtz: That's it! Run away, Perry the Scaredy– Oof. (With his face puffed up from exposure to the vacuum of space) Oh, I think I need to put on my spacesuit. Uh oh.
(The asteroid strike Doofenshmirtz's ship)
Lawrence: And now, my good man, you ready for this? Your tip. Your very own star.
Delivery Guy: Uptown, they give quasars. (He drives off)
(Phineas and Ferb's rocket lands safely, and deposits the car in the driveway)
Candace: Oh, sweet land!
Isabella: Hey, Phineas, you guys were great.
Phineas: Thanks. You weren't too bad yourself.
Isabella: Oh. (She giggles) Thanks. So, would you like to go to the Night of the Falling Stars Girls' Choice Dance tonight?
Phineas: Sounds like fun.
Isabella: Really?
Phineas: Ferb, what's our schedule like?
(Ferb gives a thumbs-up)
Phineas: Okay, we'll be there.
Isabella: Both of you?
Phineas: Yeah. Why don't you come by, and we'll all walk over together?
Isabella: Sure. No prob.
Linda: Thanks for the lift, Viv.
Candace: (Stares at her rocket ship and walks up to Linda) Mom!
Linda: Hey, sweetheart. Oh, look at your outfit. Hey, guess what? We won! (flatly) But the grand prize was a star.
Lawrence: (eating pizza) Ooh, whoo!
(Long pause)
Candace: (smiles) Mom, that's great, but you gotta see something in the yard. Come on, you gotta see it! Come on, come on!
Linda: All right, I'm a-comin'.
(Candace runs to the yard, but Linda sees the car in the driveway)
Linda: Hmm. Uh, I'll be right with you after I pull my car into the garage.
Candace: Yes, it's still here! (to Linda) See, Mom? There! Mom?
Linda: I'm just backing the car in! I'll be right with you!
(Just as Linda backs up, the cord still connected to the inside of the hood comes loose and starts the rocket up. It blasts off into space and takes Mission Control with it.)
Linda: So what did you want to show me, Candace?
Candace: (facepalms) Just go make some pie...
Linda: Or... (leaving) How about a healthy fruit salad?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, curse this tin can! Ugh, I'm going to need a jump-start! (Phineas and Ferb;s rocket crashes into Doofenshmirtz's, causing it to begin to fall towards earth) I, uh, no, I guess it won't help now.
Phineas: Hey, Candace?
Candace: What?
Phineas: Ferb and I just wanted to say thank you. We were in a pretty precarious situation up there. If it wasn't for your bravery, who knows what would have happened?
Candace: Really? You think I'm... brave?
Phineas: Are you kidding? Ferb was goin' on and on about it.
Candace: Yeah, I was brave! (She gasps) I was brave! I'm not gonna let fear rule my life anymore! Now I've gotta go. I've got a mission to accomplish.
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: Hey, Perry. Where ya been?
(At Jeremy's house, a knocking is heard)
(Jeremy gasps in shock)
Candace: Jeremy, will you go to the dance with me?
Jeremy: Candace?
Candace: (Reveals she's in her spacesuit) Yeah.
Jeremy: I've been waiting for you to ask me.
Candace: Really?
Jeremy: Yeah. Only, uh, uh, Candace, is that what you're gonna wear?
Candace:  Why? You like it?

End Credits
(Song: Let's Take a Rocket Ship to Space)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace, look.
Candace: A shooting star, just for us.
♪ Let's take a rock ship, a crazy three-stage rocket ship, ♪
♪ Let's Take a Rocket Ship to Space! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (Screaming) Curse you, Perry the Platypus! And you too, Huge Hands Hans!
Voice: It's the final frontier, baby.



Part I
(Scene opens with Phineas digging in a toolbox.)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb.
(Scene pans out to reveal they're on a very tall tower tinkering with Linda's car)
Phineas: Have you seen bolt #473?
(Cut to Candace looking through the window)
Candace: Okay, it's still here. Oh, come on, Mom! We're really coming down to the wire on this one.
(Door closes) Mom! (She runs away then runs back) Oh, great and magical being who make all things magically vanish before Mom sees them. Knock it off!!
Linda: Thanks, Vivian. See you Tuesday for totem pole carving.
Candace: Mom! Mom! Quick, Mom, look! Before it disappears!
Linda: Well, if it isn't the welcoming committee. -
(Candace starts shoving her into the yard)
Candace: No time for dry, witty remarks! Must move. Move, move, move, move! Move, move, move, move!
Linda: Don't you get tired of this?
(Candace stops shoving her)
Candace: What do you mean?
Linda: The same old routine every day. Doesn't it ever get--" mm, I don't know-- boring?
Candace: ...You know what? You're right. I guess it has gotten a little old. I just get so frustrated. I always come so close to busting Phineas and Ferb, but it ends the same way every single time. I look and say there's a massive "thing" Phineas and Ferb built right in front of me, but every time you look, you always say...
(While saying this, Linda turns and sees the parking tower, becoming shocked)
Linda: I...see it.
Candace: There it is. "I see it." Right on you. Wait, what? Come again?
Linda: I see it!
Candace: You mean you see my point?
Linda: No, Candace. I see that! (she points at the tower)
(Tower beeps)
Candace: (Gasps) You do?!
Linda: How could I miss it? But I don't understand. How the...? Or who the...? B-- What the?    
(Something flies by them very fast and shaky)
Phineas: Hi, Mom! Check it out! The Flying Car of the Future; Today!
(The flying car parks at the top of the tower)
Linda: Is that my...car?!
Candace: (Ecstatic) She sees the car, too!
(Zoom in on Linda, her shock transitions to anger)
(Cut back to Phineas and Ferb on the tower)
Phineas: (To Ferb) The Flying Car of the Future; Today, is still pulling a bit to the right.
Linda: (In the distance) PHINEAS! FERB! GET DOWN HERE THIS INSTANT!!!
(They go down the elevator)
Phineas: Okay, Mom, be right down.
(Cut to Candace and Linda, Phineas and Ferb walk by and see Perry)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry. (To Linda) So, what do you think, Mom? Pretty cool, huh?
Linda: Cool?! This is the most dangerous thing I've ever seen!!
Phineas: Don't worry, we were safe. Ferb invented a new invisible helmet head system. (He and Ferb take off hats that look like their normal heads) "When life's never dull, wear a hull for your skull."
Linda: How dare you do all this without permission!
Phineas: But all our building permits are in order.
Linda: I mean, my permission.
Phineas: This morning I asked you if we could modify our car to make it fly.
Linda: I was talking about your toy car!! How could you possibly think I meant my station wagon?! You are in SO much trouble, young man!!!
Phineas: But...we do this sort of thing every day.
Linda: (Her anger now replaced with shock) What?!!
Candace: (Sounding a bit smug) See, Mom? I told you...but you never listened.
Linda: But I...
(Linda begins to recall everything Candace has told her)
Memory-Candaces: Mom, Phineas and Ferb built a rollercoaster! Phineas and Ferb are one-hit wonders? Phineas and Ferb carved my face into Mount Rushmore. Phineas and Ferb are driving cattle. Phineas and Ferb built a giant tree house robot... (The next several begin to slur together as they quickly come to her) are promoting a boxing match...built a beach in the backyard...built a time machine... built a ski resort! Are directing a movie... built a haunted house... built a giant sundae maker... are getting the band back together... Phineas and Ferb are in my large intestine!
Linda: Oh, Candace. All the times I called you delusional and mocked you to my friends behind your back, all those journals I've filled with an eye towards stand-up comedy...but you were telling the truth! I'm so sorry. You're the best daughter any mother could dream of having.
Candace: Finally, you realize that!
Lawrence: Well, what's all this yelling about? (Notices the tower) Oh, my word! That is impressive.
Linda: Did you know about this?
Lawrence: Well, I -- I...I -- I, uh...no.
Candace: (Clearly overjoyed) What are you gonna do to them? No TV for a month? Or -- they have to serve me for a year. (gasps) How about confiscating their toolbox? (gasps) I know! Take away their seats on the city council!
Linda: You have seats on the city council?
Phineas: We rotate out with the Board of Selectmen.
Lawrence: Well, some punishment may be in order, but, look, there's no harm done really.
Phineas: Hey, look, Ferb, here's bolt number 473. I hope that wasn't important.
(The tower suddenly falls over, demolishing a big part of their house. Everyone stares on, while the car lands safely on the ground, completely unharmed)
Phineas: Well, at least the self-parking works.
(Cut to Candace, Linda and Lawrence, the latter two looking on in anger)
Candace: (Grinning widely) Ee-ee-ee-ee!
(Phineas and Ferb stare at each other, wondering what happens next)
(Scene changes to a picture of a bus full of "state prison" inmates, with Phineas and Ferb in a window. It's marked "Tri-State Penitentiary". The bus moves away, showing Phineas and Ferb in the bus for Smile Away Reformatory School. Inside the bus has students frowning.)
Linda: I'm sorry, but this is really for your own good. We need you both to understand that what you've been doing is way too dangerous. I'd never be able to live with myself if you got hurt.
Phineas: We were wearing helmets. (A sergeant walks behind the bus then holds a Smile Away Reformatory School brochure with an image of a sun on it.)
Sergeant: Don't worry. Your boys will be in good hands. As you can see from our realistically illustrated brochure, the Smile Away Reformatory offers a serene, peaceful environment in which safety, discipline and responsibility are encouraged. Your boys will be whipped into shape in no time.
Phineas: Well, I'll be honest, Ferb, I didn't see this coming. (Notices Baljeet is on the bus too) Baljeet? What are you doing here?
Baljeet: Well, I got kicked out of summer school because my grades were too high. But then I heard about this place. Sure, they break you down and strip you of your identity, but school is school.
Lawrence: Bye, boys. See you at the end of summer!
(The bus drives away)
Candace: Yes, I actually busted Phineas and Ferb! (sighs) This is the happiest moment of my life! Woo-hoo! (Candace acts like an acrobat. Elsewhere in the sky, she skydives with two teenagers, soaring pass a meadow.) I'm finally free!
(Candace and the two teenagers ride on a horse which jumps over a fence. Stacy and Jeremy are on a speedboat as Candace is on a water ski. Candace launches herself through a ramp, passing double-decker buses and playing in an arcade. The puck goes through Stacy's goalie. Candace wins, as Jeremy holds up a bouquet of flowers. It's marked, "Winner". Flowers fall down the screen as we see Candace and her friends riding a horse. Candace and Jeremy dance flamenco in a stage. Behind them is a banner marked, "Tri-State Dance Contest". The dancers twirl as roses fall on the stage. A trophy shines behind a window as Candace is wiping it. An imaginary image of Phineas and Ferb appears and disappear quickly.)
(Song: "The Good Life")
♪ The sun is up, the sky is blue ♪
♪ I can do whatever I want to ♪
♪ Cause there's nothing in my way ♪
♪ A new life starts today ♪
♪ I used to fret and worry so ♪
♪ But now I've never felt so free ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm living the good life ('Cause I'm living a good life) ♪
♪ It's the life for me ♪
♪ Yeah, I'm living the good life, the life's for me ♪
♪ Yeah, I'm living the good life, the life's for me ♪
(In the bus, they are approaching the Smile Away Reformatory School)
Phineas: That doesn't look like the brochure.
(Inside, Sergeant is shaving all the kids' heads. As he gets to Baljeet, he is stopped)
Baljeet: I was too excited to wait. (Takes off his wig) I shaved last night. Just call me Bald-jeet. Heh-heh. Get it? "Bald-jeet"?
Sergeant: Okay, listen up, maggots! You are here because your parents (Mockingly) are worried about you. Now, the way I see it, the root of all children's problems is unacceptable levels of imagination, fun, creativity and unbridled enthusiasm! Don't you eyeball me! Our goal at this school is to crush the dangerous elements inside you and replace them with structure, order, discipline and conformity.
(Drilling is heard nearby)
Sergeant: What--? (he looks over to see Phineas and Ferb doing something to their bunk bed) Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Oh, a few simple modifications. We call it the "Ferris bed." It makes trading off fair, simple and fun...(♪ carousel music) ...as well as giving easy access to the top bunk. All at the push of a button. Pretty cool, huh?
(Inside a bathroom, Phineas and Ferb are cleaning with toothbrushes while the Sergeant watches them)
Phineas: You know, this is a very inefficient way to clean a bathroom.
Sergeant: That's the idea! Now, make it shine!
♪ Funky jazz
Sergeant: And no funky rhythms! (Leaves)
Phineas: I thought it had more of a free-form jazz vibe. Huh. Well, you can't please everybody.
(Back at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: Oh! Ow-ow!
Stacy: What did you do?
Candace: I tripped over Ferb's old toolbox.
Stacy: Well, do you wanna go horseback riding?
Candace: What's your hurry? Let's relax for a little while. You know, with Phineas and Ferb gone, I've had a blast doing things I wanted to do. But it's strange. I kind of miss the little guys. It's as if there was a whole other side to our relationship that I never noticed before.
(Song: "Little Brothers")
♪ Little brothers ♪
♪ I remember when you first came home ♪
♪ Then came another ♪
♪ Little brother of our own ♪
♪ Even when you break my toys ♪
♪ You will always be my... ♪
♪ Little brothers ♪
♪ 'Cause you're younger ♪
♪ We're related and you're boys ♪
♪ Even when you're making too much noise ♪
♪ You will always be my... ♪
♪ Little brothers 'cause you're ♪
♪ We're related and you're boys ♪
♪ Little brothers ♪
♪ Little brothers ♪
♪ Little brothers ♪
Candace: Uh, Stace, you're kind of bumming me out with the song there.
Stacy: You know, you finally have everything you ever wanted. Call me when you get over it. (leaves)
Candace: Ok. Maybe a little TV will take my mind off things. (turns on the TV)
Morty Williams: Today on "The Morty Williams Show," "My Kid Is Bad, and I Want to Blame Others!" We'll go inside the nation's toughest reformatory school, where free-thinking children undergo complete personality re-programming and have all the creativity and imagination sucked right out of them. They are forced to think inside the box.
Candace: Wait a second. They didn't belong in a place like that. I know what I have to do.
Jeremy: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Jeremy? How did you get in here?
Jeremy: There's a huge gaping hole in the side of your house.
Candace: Oh, yeah, well, Phineas and Ferb would've usually fixed that by now.
Jeremy: You wanna go horseback riding?
Candace: Would you stop already with the horses? Jeremy! I know what I'm gonna do today! I'm gonna bust my brothers...
Jeremy: Didn't you already do that?
Candace: Out! Bust my brothers out!
Jeremy: Cool. I always liked your brothers. I'm coming with you.
Candace: (gasps) You mean, like a date?
Jeremy: Yeah. A weird sort of prison-break kind of date.
(Back at Smile-Away Reformatory School, Phineas, Ferb, and Baljeet are being forced to watch a video, with machines holding them in place)
Recorded female voice: Age-inappropriate building is unsafe and irresponsible. Good boys don't make anything but their sisters happy. Creative acts are imitable and dangerous. Using your imagination is morally wrong.
Baljeet: The book was so much better.
Linda: Hmm. It's a letter from the board of selectmen. The city council is proposing a millage to cover the overage from last quarter, and they need Phineas and Ferb's input.
Lawrence: (sighs) Perhaps we were a bit hard on them.
Linda: Yeah, they really did believe they had permission. I suppose it was all a big misunderstanding.
Lawrence: Well, let's go get 'em, shall we? We can take the Flying Car of the Future...Today.
Linda: Weren't you supposed to get that changed back to normal?
Lawrence: Yes, yes, but you must admit, it's pretty cool!
Linda: Yeah, it's pretty cool.
Lawrence: Hey, where's the Flying Car of the Future...Today?
(Changes to scene where Candace and Jeremy are in The Flying Car of the Future...Today, almost crashing into a tree)
Candace: Agh! Sorry. The Flying Car of the Future...Today is pulling a bit to the right.
Jeremy: Are you kidding? This is the best date ever.
Candace: (screaming laugh) Whoa-oa-oa!
(The car is on a ledge, extremely beaten up. Jeremy looks down at the cliff)
Jeremy: Maybe we should walk the rest of the way.

Part II
(Fades up on Smile Away Reform School. The students march out miserably)
(Song: "Chains on Me")
♪ I woke up this morning, and the world was gray ♪
♪ Hadn't seen the sun since they hauled me away ♪
♪ The boss man says there's no use in tryin' ♪
♪ He won't let me color outside of the lines ♪
♪ Got these chains on me ♪
♪ And they're draggin' me down ♪
♪ Got these chains on me ♪
♪ Hear that clankin' sound? ♪
♪ Got these chains on me ♪
♪ Mister, hear my song ♪
♪ Don't say imagination is morally wrong ♪
♪ Mm-hmm ♪
♪ Drink of water, boss? ♪
(shrieking)
♪ As long as I've been here ♪
♪ I got nothin' to show ♪
♪ Try to make somethin', but the boss says no ♪
♪ Wanna be creative but the man won't hear it ♪
♪ That big boss man, he's tryin' to crush my spirit ♪
♪ Got these chains on me They won't let me fly ♪
♪ Got these chains on me Won't tell me why ♪
♪ Got these chains on me Mister, hear my song ♪
♪ Don't say imagination is morally wrong ♪
♪ No, they won't let us dance or bang that gong ♪
♪ 'Cause they say imagination is morally wrong ♪
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb sitting at a table with tools in front of them)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today. (starts to reach for the tools)
Sergeant: (Squirts them with water) No.
Phineas: Hey, Ferb, I know what we're... gonna do...
Sergeant: (Squirts) No.
Phineas: Hey...
Sergeant: (Squirts) No.
Phineas: ...Ferb...
Sergeant: (Squirts) No.
Phineas: ...I...
Sergeant: (Squirts) No.
Phineas: ...uh...
Sergeant: (Squirts) No.
Phineas: ...know...
Sergeant: (Squirts) No.
Phineas: ...what...
Sergeant: (Squirts) No, no, no, no, no!
Phineas: (shivering) Hey, F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F...
Sergeant: (laughs) Yes. I've finally broken them.
(Cut to Candace and Jeremy)
Jeremy: You okay, Candace?
Candace: No, I'm trudging. I never knew people actually trudged.
Jeremy: Look, we're here.
(Candace knocks on the door. Sergeant then opens a window to show only his eyes)
Sergeant: What do you want?
Candace: Um...uh, hi. Yeah, I'm here to see my brothers, Phineas and Ferb.
Sergeant: They don't graduate till the end of the summer. Get lost.
Candace: So much for the direct approach. It's time we tried it Phineas and Ferb style.
Jeremy: Is this gonna work?
Candace: It's just like the Trojan horse from history class. They'll accept this as a gift, then after everyone falls asleep, we'll jump out and rescue Phineas and Ferb.
Sergeant: You two again? I thought I told you to get lost!
Candace: Maybe we gotta think bigger.
Sergeant: Wow, what a thoughtful gift. Too bad I don't have room for you, handsome. I'm gonna have to get a bigger yard.
Candace: (whispers) Now's our chance.
Jeremy: Yes, we did i--
Candace: Oh, what is this, hair? Gross! I bet you regret coming along with me now, huh?
Jeremy: Actually, I'm kinda havin' fun. You know, crazy, prison-break kinda fun.
Candace: And, ew! Look at this. "Baljeet's summer wig. Store at room temperature"? Huh? The Morty Williams Show? Wait a second. I've got a plan. It's foolproof.
Candace: (deep voice) Yes. Clearly I'm Morty Williams, and I'm back to do another segment.
Sergeant: Hey, aren't you a little...female to be Morty Williams?
Candace: Uh, well, you know what they say. The camera adds...masculinity.
Sergeant: Great. Well, come on in, Morty.
Candace: We're doing a follow-up show on Phineas Flynn and Ferb Fletcher.
Sergeant: My biggest success stories. Right this way. Ah, Phineas and Ferb. Such curious and self-reliant children. So fun-loving, imaginative and creative. Fortunately, we got to them just in time. See for yourself. (to Phineas and Ferb) Flynn, Fletcher, fall in! (Phineas and Ferb come out of lockers, to Candace) You see, here at the Smile Away Reformatory, our motto is, "It's structure, order and discipline today, so tomorrow it's Smile Away." Our methods have been proven 100% effective since... (continues under)
Candace: (whispers) Guys, it's me, Candace. We've come to bust you out of here. Now's our chance. RUN! (to Sergeant) Just testing. Wow, you've done a great job of turning them into, uh...that.
Sergeant: Yes. Yes, we have.
Candace: Uh, yeah, I-I think we should really get some more footage of you.
Sergeant: Oh, really?
Candace: Oh, yeah. You've got..."it," mister. So, uh, let's see. Uh, close your eyes.
Sergeant: Uh, like this?
Candace: Yes! Now stick your fingers in your ears. Perfect. Now go, "La la la la la la la la la!"
Sergeant: Well, okay. ♪ La la la la, la la la la, la la la la, la la la la, la la. ♪
Candace: The lights are all wrong. Go inside the janitor's closet. (Sergeant's singing continues) And...action! (Slams door on him) Come on, guys, we can escape now.
Phineas: (Robotic voice) Escaping is wrong, and wrongness is bad.
Candace: We don't have time for this. Grab 'em!
Linda: Why is Morty Williams running off with our children?
Lawrence: I don't know.
(Alarms begin to go off)
Sergeant: Attention, all personnel. Two students have escaped with the help of Morty Williams, syndicated daytime talk show host. Weekday mornings. Check local listings for time and channel. (dogs barking)
Candace: Come on, this way!

Morty Williams: Yep, it's time to go back inside the Smile Away Reformatory School for more footage. Those zombified brats are making me one rich - (shouting; dogs barking; barking continues)

Candace: (gasps) I've got to buy us some time.
Sergeant: It's Morty Williams! Get him!
Guards: Oh! Ow! Ow!
Sergeant: Hey, wait a minute. Look. They tricked us.
Guards: Get him! (dogs barking) Get him!

Candace: We made it! Okay, guys, this is your department. Fix the car, quick!
Phineas: (Robotic voice) Age-inappropriate building is unsafe and irresponsible.
(Barking is heard)
Jeremy: Uh, Candace?
Candace: You don't have to build anything. Just figure out how to fix it! I'm getting your toolbox. See? Your tools!
(Car falls off of the ledge and the alarm wails)
Candace: A bridge? You can build a bridge across the ravine!
Phineas: Good boys don't make anything but their sisters happy.
Candace: Great, great. Make me happy. Put on your helmet head systems, use your tools and do what you do best - build a bridge and Save Us!
Phineas: Creative acts are imitable and dangerous.
Candace: Listen to me, guys. Forget everything they told you. Creativity isn't bad. It's the best thing about you. (Sobbing) You two can do anything, and that's why I've always been secretly proud to be your older sister. What have I done?! What have I done?!
(Phineas blinks, then notices the wrench and holds it high)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb...I know what we're gonna do today.
Candace: Yes! They're back!
Sergeant: Too late. They're mine. (dogs barking) And so are you. (gasps; rocks crumbling; gasps) Look!
(dogs whimpering) Aah!
(all gasp)
Candace: Perry has a hat?!
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Platypus!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Sergeant: (screams; gasps) La la la, la la la la, la la la la, la la la - (thud)
Candace: Do you think he'll be...
Phineas: ♪ Corn dog, corn dog. Yummy, yummy, yummy. ♪
Candace: Okay. Where did you get that... Mom, Dad! Thank goodness. The strangest thing just happened.
Baljeet's voice: Fear not. Your parents are here now.
Candace: Huh?
Baljeet: The real shock is you're just noticing this now.
Candace: What?
Talking Zebra: I'm just as confused as you are, Kevin.
Jeremy: Candace, since I have no idea what will happen next, I need to tell you something. I love you, Candace Flynn. Will you marry me?
Candace: Oh, Jeremy! I always dreamed - (record needle scratches) Wait a minute. That's it! I'm dreaming!
Jeremy: That would explain the talking zebra.
Candace: Nah. I see him all the time. This, this is actually the freaky part. And it's all just been one...big...
(Cut to Candace in bed, she wakes up, gasping)
Candace: Dream! (pause) So none of that really happened. I never actually busted Phineas and Ferb. I am so happy.
(The next morning at the breakfast table...)
Candace: And suddenly Mom, Dad and Baljeet were controlled by a giant puppet master!
Phineas: Cool.
Candace: Yeah, so I'm standing there, and Jeremy comes over and says (pauses to correct her words) certain things. And...
Linda: (to Lawrence) Go grab my journal. This is comedy gold.
Phineas: Hey, Ferb, we should build a device that projects your dreams like a movie. I'd love to see what Perry dreams about.
Perry: (chatters)
Candace: Ooh, I almost forgot. Perry was in the dream too. He was like a super-secret agent or something.
Ferb: Perhaps that's where he disappears to everyday.
(They stare at Perry for a moment. Suddenly...)
SSSN: Hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup!
Candace: Hey, Wait, What are you doing? Hey!
Lawrence: Oh!
Linda: Oh!
Phineas: Wait a minute. What's going on? I haven't even finished my cereal!
Major Monogram: Agent P, your cover's been blown! You're going to have to relocate!
(Screen flashes, cut to Perry waking up, laying on Phineas' bed. Scene zooms out to reveal Phineas, he wakes up, too)
Phineas: Ah, hey, Perry. What's wrong, boy? You sounded like you were having a bad dream. It's okay now. Go back to sleep. (lies down and closes eyes, going back to sleep)
(Perry does nothing, before he smiles and curls back up going to sleep)
♪ Tired, tired, lalala... ♪

End Credits
♪ Funky jazz ♪
Sergeant: I said no funky rhythms!
Phineas: Y'know, Ferb. He's right. That was a little funky.



(Scene opens up showing a laptop with the words "What Should we do Today?" on its screen.)
Phineas: What should we do today? (First slide appears) Build an underwater skate park? Sounds pretty wicked! (Second slide appears) Fly with rocket-powered bat wings? Awesome! (Third slide appears) Teach Perry tricks. (He and Ferb looks at Perry) He's just a platypus. He doesn't do much.
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: Oh, hi, Isabella.
Isabella: Hey, Phineas. You might wanna go check up on Baljeet. I was walking by his house and heard him scream... "AIIIEEEE!!! I'M DOOMED TO BE AN INCOMPETENT FLUNKEE FOREVER!!! Ever...ever...ever..." (pause) I added the echo part.
Phineas: Sounds pretty serious.
(Baljeet's house; exterior)
Phineas: Baljeet! It's Phineas and Ferb. (Opens door to Baljeet's room) Why are all the lights off?
Baljeet: Darkness is a shroud that hides my shame.
Phineas: (Turns on light switch) Hey, buddy, why don't you tell us what's going on.
Baljeet: Because of the 17 summer school classes I am taking, I qualified for the science fair. So I decided to design this.
Phineas: (Takes blueprint; he and Ferb holds it up) A portal to Mars? Cool!
Baljeet: No, not cool. (Grabs blueprint; rolls it up) When I showed my teacher, he said...
(Flashback)
Male Teacher: A portal to Mars? And what does it do?
Baljeet: Well, without over-complicating things, it's a portal to Mars. You step through it and you're on Mars.
Male Teacher: Well, this is very...creative. But, unless you can build a working model, the best I can give you is...
(Flashback ends)
Baljeet: An A-minus?! That would be the worst grade of my life!
Phineas: Why don't you just build one?
Baljeet: I am not mechanically inclined like the two of you. To truly understand my predicament, I feel it will be best expressed in a song. (Claps hands twice)
(Song: Baliwood)
Baljeet: ♪ From the mountains of the Himalayas ♪
♪ To the valleys of Kashmir ♪
♪ My forefathers and their four fathers ♪
♪ knew one thing very clear: ♪
♪ That to be a great success in life ♪
♪ you have to make the grade ♪
♪ But if I cannot build a prototype ♪
♪ My dreams will be puréed... ♪
Phineas, Ferb, Baljeet: ♪ Puréed! (X2) ♪
Phineas: ♪ I know what we are going to do today! ♪
♪ Ferb and I are on the case! ♪
♪ We'll help you build your prototype, ♪
♪ You won't be a disgrace! ♪
Baljeet: ♪ Good! With your mechanical inclinations, ♪
♪ and my scientific expertise, ♪
♪ we are a team that can not be beaten-- ♪
Phineas: ♪ Wait, something just occurred to me! ♪
♪ Where's Perryyyyyy? ♪
♪ Where's Perryyyyyy? ♪
Baljeet: Did you have him when you came over?

(Flynn-Fletcher house; interior)
♪ Do-be-do-be-do... ♪
(Record scratching)
(In Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Oh, uh...Agent P. (Clears throat) It appears that Doofenshmirtz has made some rather unusual purchases. Chicken wire, three metric tons of baking soda and lederhosen. Those leather bib-front shorts that make you look like a walking cuckoo clock? (Pauses) Man, he is one sick puppy.

(In Baljeet's room)
(Montage; Indian music plays in background)
Phineas: You're all set for the science fair tomorrow.
Baljeet: Inside I am thanking you a thousand times, even though on the outside I remain quite frugal.

(Next morning at the Googolplex Mall...)
Phineas: Wow, Baljeet, you're already set up.
Baljeet: (With a wide smile "frozen" on his face) I have been here since midnight waiting for everyone! I can't stop smiling! I have got cramps in my cheeks.
Phineas: Here, let me help you. There you go, buddy
Baljeet: Ahh. Now I'll just hang out and "be cool" till my teacher gets here. (Wide smile appears on his face) Uh-oh, it is happening again!
(Scene switches to Candace, who's spying on Jeremy via a pair of binoculars...)
Candace: Oh, yeah, Jeremy, no one makes a corn dog like you.
Jeremy: Oh, hi, Candace. Nice binoculars.
Candace: (Chuckling nervously) Yep. Yep, they definitely are working. I--I just bought these for my dad and was just...uh, you know, making sure that they work, and they sure do. You can see really far away or really up close. (Notices poster on counter) "Help wanted"?
Jeremy: Yeah! You should apply. We could work together.
Candace: You mean side by side?
Wendy: Hi, there. I'm really really motivated! Really really positive! Really really high-energy! And would like to apply for the job.
Candace: Excuse me, I'd also like to apply for the job.
Manager: Ladies, I'm afraid I only have one opening. How about a competition to see who gets the job?
Wendy: Sounds like a great idea to me. (At Candace) Good luck. (Extends hand; quickly takes it away) Ooh, too slow. I think I'll call you Molasses.
Candace: Molasses. Well, I think I'll call you something...slower than molasses, that's for sure.
(The manager and Jeremy stares at Candace)
Candace: This isn't part of the competition, is it?

(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz driving a truck into the parking garage... with Perry following him on a jet pack.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Perry the Platypus, welcome to my truck of doom. (Stops truck; Pushes a button)
(Perry gets trapped in a car seat)
Doofenshmirtz: I suppose you're wondering why I'm wearing lederhosen. (Pauses; Perry glares at him) What? I've the legs for it! (Stretches right leg on dashboard) Eh? Eh? Eh? (Lowers right leg) Anyway, it will all become clear soon enough!
Woman: (Growling, low-voice) Come on, Hansel! Move it!
(Honking)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, wise guy, I'm just explaining... Oh! (Chuckling) Sorry, madam. Sorry. (To Perry) Her voice was so masculine and growly. I thought it was a man.
(A woman appears with a scowl on her face.)
Doofenshmirtz: I mean, people must call her "sir" all the time on the phone. It must be so em... (Laughs) She's standing right behind me now, isn't she?
(The woman raises a fist; the screen goes black; she punches Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Not one word, Perry the Platypus.

(Scene switches to a close-up view of the Googolplex Mall sign...)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, great! A line! (At a boy) Oh, brother! What is this, a model of Pluto? (Laughs) That planet doesn't even exist anymore, you moron!
Male teen: Thanks for holding my spot in line, little brother. (To Doofenshmirtz) What were you saying about Pluto?
Doofenshmirtz: Nothing. I'm sure it's...
(The screen goes black again)
Doofenshmirtz: (Groans; pulls model of Pluto off his head) I suppose you are wondering why I am putting myself through all of this.
(Flashback)
(Voice over) When I was young, I entered a science fair with my very first Inator. I-- I wasn't very clever with names yet. It was just, you know, Inator. Just as I was about to demonstrate my invention to the judges, a kid with a baking soda volcano stole the show! The next year, I tried again with my even bigger Inator. And again, my thunder was stolen by a baking soda volcano! I had enough of science. I decided to devote my life to poetry instead.
Young Adult Doofenshmirtz: The movies are gray, the TV is black, the horses are running, please bring me some food.
Doofenshmirtz: (Voice over) Yet, curiously, I still lost to a baking soda volcano!
(Flashback ends)
But never again! Behold! (Removes tarp) The world's largest baking soda volcano! I mean, it's got to be the biggest one here, right? It's gonna win. (Pauses) I feel confident.
Elderly man: Next?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, we're next.
Elderly man: Aren't you a little old to be entering this science fair?
Doofenshmirtz: No! What makes you say that? I mean, look at me! I'm wearing lederhosen!
Elderly man: (Pauses) Okay. Go ahead.
Doofenshmirtz: (Chuckles; to Perry) See? I know what I'm doing.
(Perry glares)

(Scene switches to Mr. McGillicuddy, Baljeet, Phineas, and Ferb standing in front of the portal)
Baljeet: (Cheerfully) Hi, Mr. McGillicuddy.
Mr. McGillicuddy: Well, I see you've built yourself a prototype, but the question still remains: Does...it...work?
Baljeet: Well, I think...
Phineas: Of course it works! Baljeet, fire it up.
(Baljeet pulls a lever, activating the portal.)
Mr. McGillicuddy: Ok, so I see science fair.
Baljeet: Take a closer look, Mr. McGillicuddy.
Mr. McGillicuddy: Wow! A science fair on Mars! Baljeet, you have just validated my entire career as an educator! You get an A+++! (Voice squeaks) I'm gonna go get the judges!

(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz standing by the world's largest baking soda volcano)
Doofenshmirtz: Soon I will show them the havoc created when an acid and a base combine! (Laughs; dramatic music) But first I have to find an outlet 'cause there's a nice laser show that goes along with it. We'll take this out and put mine in. (Chuckles) Hello!

Mr. McGillicuddy: It's right over here. (At Baljeet) Baljeet, show our judges what Mr. McGillicuddy has taught you.
(Baljeet tries to turn the portal on)
Mr. McGillicuddy: Ah, um, just a moment. It takes the skilled hand of a master professor. (Chuckles) Hello! Mr. Martian! It's Mr. McGillicuddy. (Chuckles) Uno momento.
Judge #1: Who's up for corn dogs?
Judge #2: I am.
Mr. McGillicuddy: A-ha! Turn it all the way up to high. (Switches dial from "low" to "high") Yes! That should do it.
Phineas: I wonder what's wrong with the portal?
Baljeet: Ah, no matter. Actually, I never cared about winning. I just wanted a good grade.
Phineas: Aah. Well, who's up for corn dogs?
Baljeet: Me!

(Scene switches to Candace, the manager, and Wendy...)
Manager: Girls, your first task is to dress these dogs with ketchup and mustard. I'll be back in a bit to check your work. Good luck!
(Western movie music plays)
Wendy: (Growls)
Candace: (Holds up a bottle of ketchup) Hey, no fair! I ran out of ketchup. (Squeezes the bottle, then grins sheepishly.) Oops. Now I'm out of ketchup.
Wendy: (Squeezes a bottle of mustard) Oops. Now I'm out of mustard.
Candace: (Squeezes a bottle of relish twice) Oh, look, I'm out of relish!
(Wendy flattens a bottle of mayo on a cooking sheet)
Wendy: (Laughing)
(Candace throws two pickles, which lands on Wendy's eyes)

(Scene switches to Mr. McGillicuddy, who's still trying to get the portal to work)
Mr. McGillicuddy: It's gotta work, it's gotta...work! Huh? (notices the plug to the portal)

(Scene switches to Perry, who got out of the car seat trap by ripping the lower half of his fur off)
(Perry reaches around inside his boxers and pulls out a small device)
(Beeps)
(Perry runs off)
Doofenshmirtz: Now just add some vinegar and... (Perry lands on his head; he screams)

Mr. McGillicuddy: It just wasn't plugged in. There's an outlet over there. (Notices a high voltage outlet; plugs the cord in, cackling) It's working! It's working!

Doofenshmirtz: Ew, gross! I smell like...salad. (Mumbling; slips on vinegar; lands in the volcano, which then "erupts") Say goodbye to this pair of lederhosen. Hey, I'm unhurt! Yes, I am invincible! Wait, wait, wait, wait! Where am I going?
Judge #1: All right, so what was it you wanted to show us?
Mr. McGillicuddy: (Stuttering) No! It was here!
Judge #1: Come on, let's go find a real winner.
Mr. McGillicuddy: But... But... But...
Girl: Excuse me, am I too late to enter?
Judge #1: Are those mechanical arms?
Girl: Why, yes. I used them to make this baking soda volcano.
Judge #1: (Gasps) A baking soda volcano? Cool! 1st prize!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, come on!
Mr. McGillicuddy: But...
(Back in the kitchen...)
Manager: Well, seeing as you've used most of my ketchup and mustard to dress yourselves, I'm afraid neither of you get the job.
Candace: Snail! I'll call you you Snail. Ha!
Wendy: You're quick.
(In the mall...)
Isabella: I just can't believe you built a portal to Mars and didn't go through it yourselves!
Phineas: Oh, we did.
Ferb: But that's another story.
Phineas: Oh, look.
Phineas, Ferb, and Baljeet: ♪ There's Perryyyyyy! ♪



(Scene opens up in Baljeet's room.)
Baljeet: To truly understand my predicament, I feel it will be best expressed in a song. (Claps hands twice)
(Intro to "Baliwood" starts, then the camera pans to the exterior of the Flynn-Fletcher house...)
(In Candace's room...)
Candace: Let's see, who should I call first to hang out with? (Holds up cell phone) How about Jeremy!
(Beeps)
Jeremy: (Via recording) Hey, it's Jeremy. You know what to do after the (beep)
(Beeps)
Candace: Oh, hey, Jeremy. It's Candace. Uh, just seeing what's going on today. Call me back if you want to. Okay, bye! (Closes cell phone) Oh, man, that never gets easier. Oh, well, I'll just call Stacy. (Opens cell phone) She's probably been waiting by the phone all morning.
(Beep)
Stacy: (Via recording) You've reached Stacy's mobile. Leave a message, I'll get back to you.
(Beep)
Candace: Hey, Stace! It's Candace. Where are you? Call me! Hmm. That's weird. Who else can I call? I know! Jenny! I haven't seen her since the boys built a beach in the backyard.
Jenny: Hello?
Candace: Jenny, hey, it's Candy.
Jenny: (Via recording) Leave a message, I'll get back to you as soon as possible.
Candace: Call me. Hmm. Who else do I know? Becky, this is Candace. I know we haven't talked since kindergarten, but... Hey, Wendy. This is Candace. We shared a seat on the bus to planetarium. Hello? Clarissa, this is Candace. We played volleyball at camp. Jill? Nancy? Barbara? Olga? Chicago Joe!
Woman: Information.
Candace: See a movie with me. (Screams) Where is everyone?
(Scene switches to Candace, who's now downstairs)
Candace: Are they all out having fun without me?
(Candace leaves; Perry then arrives to use an entrance to his lair)
(Scene switches to the garage)
Candace: So all my friends need some time to themselves, huh? Well, not without me they're not.
(Candace leaves; her theme playing in the background)
(Scene switches to the exterior of the Googolplex Mall)
Manager: Hey; I'm looking for Jeremy too. I need him to work tomorrow. Our fry guy just defected over to Taco Tepee. (at Taco Tepee manager) You win this one, Cooks with Grease!
(Scene switches to Candace, pushing her bike)
Candace: Am I that bad to hang out with?
(Cell phone beeping)
Candace: Ooh! A text message. And it's from Stacy!
(Beep)
Candace: "CYL, BFF, S." What does that mean? Let's see. "Candace, You Loser....Bad Friendships Fail...Stacy." Harsh!
Pidgeons: (Cooing)
Candace: (sighs) Feels like I don't exist anymore, like I'm a nobody. I wish I could go to some cool faraway place and start over. Wait a minute. Those are Phineas and Ferb's bikes!
(Scene switches to Baljeet's room)
Baljeet: Inside I am thanking you a thousand times, even though on the outside I remain quite frugal.
Phineas: See you tomorrow.
Candace: What are you guys up to?
Phineas: We just built a teleport to a cool, faraway place.
Candace: Well, that's all I needed to hear! Candace Flynn is out. Peace! (Walks through the portal)
Phineas: Welcome to Mars.
Candace: Mars?!
(Portal fizzes then short-circuits)
Baljeet: Oh, no! The portal is broken! Ooh, now I will not get a good grade at the science fair tomorrow, and, uh,... there's also the issue of your sister stranded on a distant, barren planet.
Phineas: Don't worry, we can fix it. Heh. Candace is probably laughing about it as we speak!
(Back on Mars)
Candace: PHINEAS!!!

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
(Perry uses a rope to climb up the building, then uses a laser to get into Doofenshmirtz's apartment. While he goes into a fighting stance, the camera pans to Doofenshmirtz, who's coloring on a blueprint)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, what's up? Oh, are you here to...? Oh, no, no. I'm running a little behind. I'm still in the middle of basic plotting and scheming. Of course, I-I...can't give you my evil scheme monologue because I write that last. Sorry! That's just how I roll.
(Perry's about to leave, when Doofenshmirtz stops him)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, wait! Why don't you help me? That way I can finish faster and you can defeat me faster. It's win-win! Let me grab my coupons. We'll start by shopping for some supplies.

Candace: You guys are so busted! (echoing) Busted...busted... Now I truly am alone. (Notices a Mars Rover) Hey, it's one of those Mars Rovers. I'm saved!
(Scene switches to a command center)
("Watchin' and Waitin'" instrumental)
Man: (Screaming) I can't take it anymore! I've been staring at red rocks for 20 years! That's all that is on that stupid planet! Red rocks! Face it, there's no life on Mars. That's it! I'm shutting this place down! Game over! (The screen shuts down)
Candace: (While kicking at the Mars Rover) Stupid Rover! You're not going to ignore me too. Take that, you ugly, unmanned exploratory vehicle! And that!
(Beeping)
Candace: Yeah, yeah, that's what I thought. (Notices a Martian) Huh?
Martian: (Taps the broken Rover)
Candace: What are you?
Martian: (Screeches)
(Indistinct chattering)
Martians: (Speaking in a foreign language)
Candace: What's going on? What are you doing? Put me down!

(Scene switches to Baljeet's room, where Phineas and Ferb just fixed the portal)
Phineas: There! I think we fixed it.
Baljeet: No, that is Venus. And that is Earth in prehistoric time. (Gasps, yells) Change it, change it, change it! Hey, look, it is us in the future fixing the portal.
Baljeet of the future: Hello, Baljeet of the past! Just watch us. That is how we learned to fix it. Gesundheit!
Baljeet: Thanks. (Sneezes)
(The portal opens, showing the broken Mars Rover.)
Phineas: It worked. Cool! (At Baljeet) Ok, give us 20 minutes to find Candace, then open up the portal.
Baljeet: Ooh, please be careful. I still need your help at the science fair tomorrow.
(The portal closes)
Phineas: Hmm. Something tells me Candace was here. Good thing you brought your tools. I got an idea.
Candace: Okay, what's going on? (A Martian places a crown on her head) Ooh. You're making me your ruler?
Martians: (Speaking foreign language)
Candace: Cool! Let's get this party started! Crank the tunes.
Martians: (Blinking)
Candace: Uh, you know, music. You guys don't know what music is? Well, it's like...it's like this.
(Up-tempo beats play)
Candace: That's it! You're getting it.
(Song: "Queen of Mars")
Candace: ♪ I was just a lonely girl ♪
♪ Lookin' for a little fun ♪
♪ Though without a friend in the world ♪
♪ I was forced to find a new one ♪
♪ Now I'm the Queen of Mars ♪
♪ I was invisible on Earth ♪
♪ It only took a magic portal to Mars ♪
♪ To give me some self-worth ♪
♪ You put a crown on my head ♪
♪ And you all seem to worship me ♪
♪ Well you don't understand a word I've said, ♪
♪ Still you treat me like royalty ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm the Queen of Mars ♪
♪ I was invisible on Earth ♪
♪ It only took a magic portal to Mars ♪
♪ To give me some self-worth ♪
Phineas: Whoo-hoo! Follow that music, Ferb!
Candace: You are much more attentive than my friends on Earth, and better at building statues of me. Come on, let's walk and talk. Of course, I'll do most of the talking. Okay. To make things easier, I'll call you Good Stacy, and you, Good Jenny. And...huh?
Martians: (Speaking foreign language)
Candace: Oh, okay, what the heck? (Smashes a Mars Rover)
Martians: (Cheering)
(Phineas and Ferb arrive in the fixed up Mars Rover)
Phineas: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Phineas? Ferb?
Martians: (Chattering indistinctly)
Phineas: We're here to rescue you.
Candace: Why would I go back to being a nobody when I could be the queen of here?
Phineas: Well, there's a lot of... Uh, Candace, what's up with your friends?
Candace: Ah, ignore them. They're harmless. Hey, why don't you hang out while so you can tell everyone how popular I've become.

(Scene switches to a supermarket)
Doofenshmirtz: (While pushing a shopping cart) Okay, I've already got the chicken wire. Let's see. Oh, here! (Hands a list to Perry, who's sitting in the child's seat) You-you...take the list and cross things off as we go. Should we get something for later, like...like...one of those big pickles or a three-bean salad? (he bumps the shopping cart against another one)
(The camera pans out to reveal the other shopping cart is being pushing by Monogram with Carl in the child's seat. Awkward pause then Monogram backs away.)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, that was awkward.

(Scene switches to a palace on Mars)
Candace: I'm just gonna go for a walk. (A group of Martians points to a Mars Rover) Uh...uh...guys, not now, okay? (more Martians surrounds her) No, really, I would just like to got for a walk alone. (Groaning) (At Phineas and Ferb) There you are! Where've you guys been?
Phineas: Ferb was just explaining to the Martians how we got here.
Candace: Oh. Wait, what?
Phineas: Ferb speaks Martian. They're really excited about the idea of a science fair.
Candace: Figures. I'm the queen of little green nerds. Can you tell them that I want a little time to myself?
Ferb, Martian: (Both speaking Martian)
Ferb: They say fine, but not without them.
Candace: (Groans) Okay; just because I need to do things without you, sometimes, doesn't mean I don't like you or don't appreciate your friendship.
Phineas: But Candace, isn't that...
Candace: Yeah, yeah, just like my friends with me. Whoop-de-doo!
Martians: (All speaking Martian)
Phineas: It appears the Martians are blaming us for their queen wanting to leave.
Candace: Quick! Get in! Queen Candace is out! Peace!
Martians: (All screeching)
Phineas: Did you know they could do that?
Candace: No, but get this: Every part of their body is a musical instrument, and they never discovered music before. Martians are so lame.
Phineas: Hey, Candace. You got your cell phone on you? (At Baljeet) Hello, Baljeet?
Candace: How is it we have bars here?
Phineas: We kinda need you to open the portal now.
Candace: They're gaining on us!
Giant Martian: (Screaming)
(Portal opens; Candace drives through it)

(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, thanks for your help. I usually hate shopping, but, you know. You make it fun.
(Perry, looking tired and cranky, points at something)
Doofenshmirtz: What, that? Oh, that's my first Inator. Good story. I'll tell you all about it tomorrow. Well, I should probably get back to my latest evil scheme! (Slams door with a foot) So long...sucker!

(Scene switches to the backyard)
Candace: Mom, Mom!
Linda: Well, hello, Candace. Where've you been? I want you to see my telescope.
Candace: A telescope? Perfect!

(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz standing by his first Inator)
Doofenshmirtz: You know, I don't even remember what this does. (He pushes a button on the Inator, and a green beam shoots out of it) Oh, that's right, it just shoots a beam into space. No wonder why I lost to a baking soda volcano.

(Scene switches to the backyard)
Candace: Phineas and Ferb built this portal to Mars. I went through it and was crowned queen of the Martians. Now I know it sounds crazy, but this time, I have proof.
(She looks through the telescope and it eventually zooms in to an in-graving of her head)
Candace: Who does that look like?
(The beam from Doofenshmirtz's first Inator hits Mars)
Linda: (while looking through the telescope) Hmm. Well, it looks a little like a rhesus monkey wearing a powdered wig.
Candace: What? Let me see that.
(She looks through it again and sure enough, the in-graving has changed)
Candace: (Stuttering)
(Scene switches to the front yard)
Candace: (Sighing)
Jenny: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Oh, there you are, guys! Where have you been all day?
Jenny: I was at the dentist.
Jeremy: I was taking my little sister to the movies.
Stacy: Didn't you get my text message? "Call You Later, Best Friends Forever. Stacy."
Candace: Oh. (Chuckling) That's what I thought it said. It's funny, I kind of thought you guys were avoiding me.
Unknown guy: Actually, I was trying to avoid you.
Candace: (Pauses) Do I know you?
Unknown guy: No, that's how great it's been working. Unknown guy is out. Pee-ace!

End Credits
(Caption: 24 Hours Later)
Doofenshmirtz: I am invincible! Wait, wait, wait, wait! Where are we going?
(He and the portal vanishes with a poof of smoke)
Doofenshmirtz: (Groaning) Where am I? (The Martians surrounds him) Okay. Be cool, okay? (Notices the crown) What? Oh, you're going to make me your king? Well, ok, if you must. (Stuttering) What?
(A Martian places a crown on a baking soda volcano)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, come on!



Part I
(Scene opens with Phineas digging in a toolbox.)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb.
(Scene pans out to reveal they're on a very tall tower tinkering with Linda's car)
Phineas: Have you seen bolt #473?
(Cut to Candace looking through the window)
Candace: Okay, it's still here. Oh, come on, Mom! We're really coming down to the wire on this one.
(Door closes) Mom! (She runs away then runs back) Oh, great and magical being who make all things magically vanish before Mom sees them. Knock it off!!
Linda: Thanks, Vivian. See you Tuesday for totem pole carving.
Candace: Mom! Mom! Quick, Mom, look! Before it disappears!
Linda: Well, if it isn't the welcoming committee. -
(Candace starts shoving her into the yard)
Candace: No time for dry, witty remarks! Must move. Move, move, move, move! Move, move, move, move!
Linda: Don't you get tired of this?
(Candace stops shoving her)
Candace: What do you mean?
Linda: The same old routine every day. Doesn't it ever get--" mm, I don't know-- boring?
Candace: ...You know what? You're right. I guess it has gotten a little old. I just get so frustrated. I always come so close to busting Phineas and Ferb, but it ends the same way every single time. I look and say there's a massive "thing" Phineas and Ferb built right in front of me, but every time you look, you always say...
(While saying this, Linda turns and sees the parking tower, becoming shocked)
Linda: I...see it.
Candace: There it is. "I see it." Right on you. Wait, what? Come again?
Linda: I see it!
Candace: You mean you see my point?
Linda: No, Candace. I see that! (she points at the tower)
(Tower beeps)
Candace: (Gasps) You do?!
Linda: How could I miss it? But I don't understand. How the...? Or who the...? B-- What the?    
(Something flies by them very fast and shaky)
Phineas: Hi, Mom! Check it out! The Flying Car of the Future; Today!
(The flying car parks at the top of the tower)
Linda: Is that my...car?!
Candace: (Ecstatic) She sees the car, too!
(Zoom in on Linda, her shock transitions to anger)
(Cut back to Phineas and Ferb on the tower)
Phineas: (To Ferb) The Flying Car of the Future; Today, is still pulling a bit to the right.
Linda: (In the distance) PHINEAS! FERB! GET DOWN HERE THIS INSTANT!!!
(They go down the elevator)
Phineas: Okay, Mom, be right down.
(Cut to Candace and Linda, Phineas and Ferb walk by and see Perry)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry. (To Linda) So, what do you think, Mom? Pretty cool, huh?
Linda: Cool?! This is the most dangerous thing I've ever seen!!
Phineas: Don't worry, we were safe. Ferb invented a new invisible helmet head system. (He and Ferb take off hats that look like their normal heads) "When life's never dull, wear a hull for your skull."
Linda: How dare you do all this without permission!
Phineas: But all our building permits are in order.
Linda: I mean, my permission.
Phineas: This morning I asked you if we could modify our car to make it fly.
Linda: I was talking about your toy car!! How could you possibly think I meant my station wagon?! You are in SO much trouble, young man!!!
Phineas: But...we do this sort of thing every day.
Linda: (Her anger now replaced with shock) What?!!
Candace: (Sounding a bit smug) See, Mom? I told you...but you never listened.
Linda: But I...
(Linda begins to recall everything Candace has told her)
Memory-Candaces: Mom, Phineas and Ferb built a rollercoaster! Phineas and Ferb are one-hit wonders? Phineas and Ferb carved my face into Mount Rushmore. Phineas and Ferb are driving cattle. Phineas and Ferb built a giant tree house robot... (The next several begin to slur together as they quickly come to her) are promoting a boxing match...built a beach in the backyard...built a time machine... built a ski resort! Are directing a movie... built a haunted house... built a giant sundae maker... are getting the band back together... Phineas and Ferb are in my large intestine!
Linda: Oh, Candace. All the times I called you delusional and mocked you to my friends behind your back, all those journals I've filled with an eye towards stand-up comedy...but you were telling the truth! I'm so sorry. You're the best daughter any mother could dream of having.
Candace: Finally, you realize that!
Lawrence: Well, what's all this yelling about? (Notices the tower) Oh, my word! That is impressive.
Linda: Did you know about this?
Lawrence: Well, I -- I...I -- I, uh...no.
Candace: (Clearly overjoyed) What are you gonna do to them? No TV for a month? Or -- they have to serve me for a year. (gasps) How about confiscating their toolbox? (gasps) I know! Take away their seats on the city council!
Linda: You have seats on the city council?
Phineas: We rotate out with the Board of Selectmen.
Lawrence: Well, some punishment may be in order, but, look, there's no harm done really.
Phineas: Hey, look, Ferb, here's bolt number 473. I hope that wasn't important.
(The tower suddenly falls over, demolishing a big part of their house. Everyone stares on, while the car lands safely on the ground, completely unharmed)
Phineas: Well, at least the self-parking works.
(Cut to Candace, Linda and Lawrence, the latter two looking on in anger)
Candace: (Grinning widely) Ee-ee-ee-ee!
(Phineas and Ferb stare at each other, wondering what happens next)
(Scene changes to a picture of a bus full of "state prison" inmates, with Phineas and Ferb in a window. It's marked "Tri-State Penitentiary". The bus moves away, showing Phineas and Ferb in the bus for Smile Away Reformatory School. Inside the bus has students frowning.)
Linda: I'm sorry, but this is really for your own good. We need you both to understand that what you've been doing is way too dangerous. I'd never be able to live with myself if you got hurt.
Phineas: We were wearing helmets. (A sergeant walks behind the bus then holds a Smile Away Reformatory School brochure with an image of a sun on it.)
Sergeant: Don't worry. Your boys will be in good hands. As you can see from our realistically illustrated brochure, the Smile Away Reformatory offers a serene, peaceful environment in which safety, discipline and responsibility are encouraged. Your boys will be whipped into shape in no time.
Phineas: Well, I'll be honest, Ferb, I didn't see this coming. (Notices Baljeet is on the bus too) Baljeet? What are you doing here?
Baljeet: Well, I got kicked out of summer school because my grades were too high. But then I heard about this place. Sure, they break you down and strip you of your identity, but school is school.
Lawrence: Bye, boys. See you at the end of summer!
(The bus drives away)
Candace: Yes, I actually busted Phineas and Ferb! (sighs) This is the happiest moment of my life! Woo-hoo! (Candace acts like an acrobat. Elsewhere in the sky, she skydives with two teenagers, soaring pass a meadow.) I'm finally free!
(Candace and the two teenagers ride on a horse which jumps over a fence. Stacy and Jeremy are on a speedboat as Candace is on a water ski. Candace launches herself through a ramp, passing double-decker buses and playing in an arcade. The puck goes through Stacy's goalie. Candace wins, as Jeremy holds up a bouquet of flowers. It's marked, "Winner". Flowers fall down the screen as we see Candace and her friends riding a horse. Candace and Jeremy dance flamenco in a stage. Behind them is a banner marked, "Tri-State Dance Contest". The dancers twirl as roses fall on the stage. A trophy shines behind a window as Candace is wiping it. An imaginary image of Phineas and Ferb appears and disappear quickly.)
(Song: "The Good Life")
♪ The sun is up, the sky is blue ♪
♪ I can do whatever I want to ♪
♪ Cause there's nothing in my way ♪
♪ A new life starts today ♪
♪ I used to fret and worry so ♪
♪ But now I've never felt so free ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm living the good life ('Cause I'm living a good life) ♪
♪ It's the life for me ♪
♪ Yeah, I'm living the good life, the life's for me ♪
♪ Yeah, I'm living the good life, the life's for me ♪
(In the bus, they are approaching the Smile Away Reformatory School)
Phineas: That doesn't look like the brochure.
(Inside, Sergeant is shaving all the kids' heads. As he gets to Baljeet, he is stopped)
Baljeet: I was too excited to wait. (Takes off his wig) I shaved last night. Just call me Bald-jeet. Heh-heh. Get it? "Bald-jeet"?
Sergeant: Okay, listen up, maggots! You are here because your parents (Mockingly) are worried about you. Now, the way I see it, the root of all children's problems is unacceptable levels of imagination, fun, creativity and unbridled enthusiasm! Don't you eyeball me! Our goal at this school is to crush the dangerous elements inside you and replace them with structure, order, discipline and conformity.
(Drilling is heard nearby)
Sergeant: What--? (he looks over to see Phineas and Ferb doing something to their bunk bed) Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Oh, a few simple modifications. We call it the "Ferris bed." It makes trading off fair, simple and fun...(♪ carousel music) ...as well as giving easy access to the top bunk. All at the push of a button. Pretty cool, huh?
(Inside a bathroom, Phineas and Ferb are cleaning with toothbrushes while the Sergeant watches them)
Phineas: You know, this is a very inefficient way to clean a bathroom.
Sergeant: That's the idea! Now, make it shine!
♪ Funky jazz
Sergeant: And no funky rhythms! (Leaves)
Phineas: I thought it had more of a free-form jazz vibe. Huh. Well, you can't please everybody.
(Back at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: Oh! Ow-ow!
Stacy: What did you do?
Candace: I tripped over Ferb's old toolbox.
Stacy: Well, do you wanna go horseback riding?
Candace: What's your hurry? Let's relax for a little while. You know, with Phineas and Ferb gone, I've had a blast doing things I wanted to do. But it's strange. I kind of miss the little guys. It's as if there was a whole other side to our relationship that I never noticed before.
(Song: "Little Brothers")
♪ Little brothers ♪
♪ I remember when you first came home ♪
♪ Then came another ♪
♪ Little brother of our own ♪
♪ Even when you break my toys ♪
♪ You will always be my... ♪
♪ Little brothers ♪
♪ 'Cause you're younger ♪
♪ We're related and you're boys ♪
♪ Even when you're making too much noise ♪
♪ You will always be my... ♪
♪ Little brothers 'cause you're ♪
♪ We're related and you're boys ♪
♪ Little brothers ♪
♪ Little brothers ♪
♪ Little brothers ♪
Candace: Uh, Stace, you're kind of bumming me out with the song there.
Stacy: You know, you finally have everything you ever wanted. Call me when you get over it. (leaves)
Candace: Ok. Maybe a little TV will take my mind off things. (turns on the TV)
Morty Williams: Today on "The Morty Williams Show," "My Kid Is Bad, and I Want to Blame Others!" We'll go inside the nation's toughest reformatory school, where free-thinking children undergo complete personality re-programming and have all the creativity and imagination sucked right out of them. They are forced to think inside the box.
Candace: Wait a second. They didn't belong in a place like that. I know what I have to do.
Jeremy: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Jeremy? How did you get in here?
Jeremy: There's a huge gaping hole in the side of your house.
Candace: Oh, yeah, well, Phineas and Ferb would've usually fixed that by now.
Jeremy: You wanna go horseback riding?
Candace: Would you stop already with the horses? Jeremy! I know what I'm gonna do today! I'm gonna bust my brothers...
Jeremy: Didn't you already do that?
Candace: Out! Bust my brothers out!
Jeremy: Cool. I always liked your brothers. I'm coming with you.
Candace: (gasps) You mean, like a date?
Jeremy: Yeah. A weird sort of prison-break kind of date.
(Back at Smile-Away Reformatory School, Phineas, Ferb, and Baljeet are being forced to watch a video, with machines holding them in place)
Recorded female voice: Age-inappropriate building is unsafe and irresponsible. Good boys don't make anything but their sisters happy. Creative acts are imitable and dangerous. Using your imagination is morally wrong.
Baljeet: The book was so much better.
Linda: Hmm. It's a letter from the board of selectmen. The city council is proposing a millage to cover the overage from last quarter, and they need Phineas and Ferb's input.
Lawrence: (sighs) Perhaps we were a bit hard on them.
Linda: Yeah, they really did believe they had permission. I suppose it was all a big misunderstanding.
Lawrence: Well, let's go get 'em, shall we? We can take the Flying Car of the Future...Today.
Linda: Weren't you supposed to get that changed back to normal?
Lawrence: Yes, yes, but you must admit, it's pretty cool!
Linda: Yeah, it's pretty cool.
Lawrence: Hey, where's the Flying Car of the Future...Today?
(Changes to scene where Candace and Jeremy are in The Flying Car of the Future...Today, almost crashing into a tree)
Candace: Agh! Sorry. The Flying Car of the Future...Today is pulling a bit to the right.
Jeremy: Are you kidding? This is the best date ever.
Candace: (screaming laugh) Whoa-oa-oa!
(The car is on a ledge, extremely beaten up. Jeremy looks down at the cliff)
Jeremy: Maybe we should walk the rest of the way.

Part II
(Fades up on Smile Away Reform School. The students march out miserably)
(Song: "Chains on Me")
♪ I woke up this morning, and the world was gray ♪
♪ Hadn't seen the sun since they hauled me away ♪
♪ The boss man says there's no use in tryin' ♪
♪ He won't let me color outside of the lines ♪
♪ Got these chains on me ♪
♪ And they're draggin' me down ♪
♪ Got these chains on me ♪
♪ Hear that clankin' sound? ♪
♪ Got these chains on me ♪
♪ Mister, hear my song ♪
♪ Don't say imagination is morally wrong ♪
♪ Mm-hmm ♪
♪ Drink of water, boss? ♪
(shrieking)
♪ As long as I've been here ♪
♪ I got nothin' to show ♪
♪ Try to make somethin', but the boss says no ♪
♪ Wanna be creative but the man won't hear it ♪
♪ That big boss man, he's tryin' to crush my spirit ♪
♪ Got these chains on me They won't let me fly ♪
♪ Got these chains on me Won't tell me why ♪
♪ Got these chains on me Mister, hear my song ♪
♪ Don't say imagination is morally wrong ♪
♪ No, they won't let us dance or bang that gong ♪
♪ 'Cause they say imagination is morally wrong ♪
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb sitting at a table with tools in front of them)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today. (starts to reach for the tools)
Sergeant: (Squirts them with water) No.
Phineas: Hey, Ferb, I know what we're... gonna do...
Sergeant: (Squirts) No.
Phineas: Hey...
Sergeant: (Squirts) No.
Phineas: ...Ferb...
Sergeant: (Squirts) No.
Phineas: ...I...
Sergeant: (Squirts) No.
Phineas: ...uh...
Sergeant: (Squirts) No.
Phineas: ...know...
Sergeant: (Squirts) No.
Phineas: ...what...
Sergeant: (Squirts) No, no, no, no, no!
Phineas: (shivering) Hey, F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F...
Sergeant: (laughs) Yes. I've finally broken them.
(Cut to Candace and Jeremy)
Jeremy: You okay, Candace?
Candace: No, I'm trudging. I never knew people actually trudged.
Jeremy: Look, we're here.
(Candace knocks on the door. Sergeant then opens a window to show only his eyes)
Sergeant: What do you want?
Candace: Um...uh, hi. Yeah, I'm here to see my brothers, Phineas and Ferb.
Sergeant: They don't graduate till the end of the summer. Get lost.
Candace: So much for the direct approach. It's time we tried it Phineas and Ferb style.
Jeremy: Is this gonna work?
Candace: It's just like the Trojan horse from history class. They'll accept this as a gift, then after everyone falls asleep, we'll jump out and rescue Phineas and Ferb.
Sergeant: You two again? I thought I told you to get lost!
Candace: Maybe we gotta think bigger.
Sergeant: Wow, what a thoughtful gift. Too bad I don't have room for you, handsome. I'm gonna have to get a bigger yard.
Candace: (whispers) Now's our chance.
Jeremy: Yes, we did i--
Candace: Oh, what is this, hair? Gross! I bet you regret coming along with me now, huh?
Jeremy: Actually, I'm kinda havin' fun. You know, crazy, prison-break kinda fun.
Candace: And, ew! Look at this. "Baljeet's summer wig. Store at room temperature"? Huh? The Morty Williams Show? Wait a second. I've got a plan. It's foolproof.
Candace: (deep voice) Yes. Clearly I'm Morty Williams, and I'm back to do another segment.
Sergeant: Hey, aren't you a little...female to be Morty Williams?
Candace: Uh, well, you know what they say. The camera adds...masculinity.
Sergeant: Great. Well, come on in, Morty.
Candace: We're doing a follow-up show on Phineas Flynn and Ferb Fletcher.
Sergeant: My biggest success stories. Right this way. Ah, Phineas and Ferb. Such curious and self-reliant children. So fun-loving, imaginative and creative. Fortunately, we got to them just in time. See for yourself. (to Phineas and Ferb) Flynn, Fletcher, fall in! (Phineas and Ferb come out of lockers, to Candace) You see, here at the Smile Away Reformatory, our motto is, "It's structure, order and discipline today, so tomorrow it's Smile Away." Our methods have been proven 100% effective since... (continues under)
Candace: (whispers) Guys, it's me, Candace. We've come to bust you out of here. Now's our chance. RUN! (to Sergeant) Just testing. Wow, you've done a great job of turning them into, uh...that.
Sergeant: Yes. Yes, we have.
Candace: Uh, yeah, I-I think we should really get some more footage of you.
Sergeant: Oh, really?
Candace: Oh, yeah. You've got..."it," mister. So, uh, let's see. Uh, close your eyes.
Sergeant: Uh, like this?
Candace: Yes! Now stick your fingers in your ears. Perfect. Now go, "La la la la la la la la la!"
Sergeant: Well, okay. ♪ La la la la, la la la la, la la la la, la la la la, la la. ♪
Candace: The lights are all wrong. Go inside the janitor's closet. (Sergeant's singing continues) And...action! (Slams door on him) Come on, guys, we can escape now.
Phineas: (Robotic voice) Escaping is wrong, and wrongness is bad.
Candace: We don't have time for this. Grab 'em!
Linda: Why is Morty Williams running off with our children?
Lawrence: I don't know.
(Alarms begin to go off)
Sergeant: Attention, all personnel. Two students have escaped with the help of Morty Williams, syndicated daytime talk show host. Weekday mornings. Check local listings for time and channel. (dogs barking)
Candace: Come on, this way!

Morty Williams: Yep, it's time to go back inside the Smile Away Reformatory School for more footage. Those zombified brats are making me one rich - (shouting; dogs barking; barking continues)

Candace: (gasps) I've got to buy us some time.
Sergeant: It's Morty Williams! Get him!
Guards: Oh! Ow! Ow!
Sergeant: Hey, wait a minute. Look. They tricked us.
Guards: Get him! (dogs barking) Get him!

Candace: We made it! Okay, guys, this is your department. Fix the car, quick!
Phineas: (Robotic voice) Age-inappropriate building is unsafe and irresponsible.
(Barking is heard)
Jeremy: Uh, Candace?
Candace: You don't have to build anything. Just figure out how to fix it! I'm getting your toolbox. See? Your tools!
(Car falls off of the ledge and the alarm wails)
Candace: A bridge? You can build a bridge across the ravine!
Phineas: Good boys don't make anything but their sisters happy.
Candace: Great, great. Make me happy. Put on your helmet head systems, use your tools and do what you do best - build a bridge and Save Us!
Phineas: Creative acts are imitable and dangerous.
Candace: Listen to me, guys. Forget everything they told you. Creativity isn't bad. It's the best thing about you. (Sobbing) You two can do anything, and that's why I've always been secretly proud to be your older sister. What have I done?! What have I done?!
(Phineas blinks, then notices the wrench and holds it high)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb...I know what we're gonna do today.
Candace: Yes! They're back!
Sergeant: Too late. They're mine. (dogs barking) And so are you. (gasps; rocks crumbling; gasps) Look!
(dogs whimpering) Aah!
(all gasp)
Candace: Perry has a hat?!
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Platypus!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Sergeant: (screams; gasps) La la la, la la la la, la la la la, la la la - (thud)
Candace: Do you think he'll be...
Phineas: ♪ Corn dog, corn dog. Yummy, yummy, yummy. ♪
Candace: Okay. Where did you get that... Mom, Dad! Thank goodness. The strangest thing just happened.
Baljeet's voice: Fear not. Your parents are here now.
Candace: Huh?
Baljeet: The real shock is you're just noticing this now.
Candace: What?
Talking Zebra: I'm just as confused as you are, Kevin.
Jeremy: Candace, since I have no idea what will happen next, I need to tell you something. I love you, Candace Flynn. Will you marry me?
Candace: Oh, Jeremy! I always dreamed - (record needle scratches) Wait a minute. That's it! I'm dreaming!
Jeremy: That would explain the talking zebra.
Candace: Nah. I see him all the time. This, this is actually the freaky part. And it's all just been one...big...
(Cut to Candace in bed, she wakes up, gasping)
Candace: Dream! (pause) So none of that really happened. I never actually busted Phineas and Ferb. I am so happy.
(The next morning at the breakfast table...)
Candace: And suddenly Mom, Dad and Baljeet were controlled by a giant puppet master!
Phineas: Cool.
Candace: Yeah, so I'm standing there, and Jeremy comes over and says (pauses to correct her words) certain things. And...
Linda: (to Lawrence) Go grab my journal. This is comedy gold.
Phineas: Hey, Ferb, we should build a device that projects your dreams like a movie. I'd love to see what Perry dreams about.
Perry: (chatters)
Candace: Ooh, I almost forgot. Perry was in the dream too. He was like a super-secret agent or something.
Ferb: Perhaps that's where he disappears to everyday.
(They stare at Perry for a moment. Suddenly...)
SSSN: Hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup, hup!
Candace: Hey, Wait, What are you doing? Hey!
Lawrence: Oh!
Linda: Oh!
Phineas: Wait a minute. What's going on? I haven't even finished my cereal!
Major Monogram: Agent P, your cover's been blown! You're going to have to relocate!
(Screen flashes, cut to Perry waking up, laying on Phineas' bed. Scene zooms out to reveal Phineas, he wakes up, too)
Phineas: Ah, hey, Perry. What's wrong, boy? You sounded like you were having a bad dream. It's okay now. Go back to sleep. (lies down and closes eyes, going back to sleep)
(Perry does nothing, before he smiles and curls back up going to sleep)
♪ Tired, tired, lalala... ♪

End Credits
♪ Funky jazz ♪
Sergeant: I said no funky rhythms!
Phineas: Y'know, Ferb. He's right. That was a little funky.



Part I
(Scene opens up showing Lake Nose. The Flynn-Fletcher car drives by)
Phineas: We're here!
Lawrence: Ah, Lake Nose.
Linda: This is just what i needed. A nice, relaxing family getaway.
Lawrence: Such beauty, such tranquility. A fisherman's paradise. Yes, of all the lakes in the world, I'm glad we picked the Nose.
(Phineas, Ferb and Candace laugh)
Linda: That's charming, dear.
Candace: (Looks out the car window) I still can't believe I get to be on the Lake Nose lifeguard squad with Jeremy. The lifeguards at Lake Nose are considered the coolest of the cool. All the other kids look up to them and have to do whatever they say.
Phineas: (With a Lake Nose guide) Or they'll get eaten.
Candace: Exactly. I-- Wait, what?
Phineas: It says here "Many believe these murky waters are home to Nosey, the ferocious Lake Nose Monster".
Candace: (Laughs) Nosey? Yeah, I'm so sure. There is no such thing as a Lake Nose Monster. Right, Dad?
Lawrence: Well, Candace there's no such thing as lots of things, and there's such thing as many other things. (Spins the steering wheel) Is Nosey such a thing? (The car stops turning) Well, you see, that's the thing, isn't it?
Candace: Dad, is this one of those cultural things again? Because I'm not sure they'd even know what the heck you're talking about in England.
(At Lake Nose, Linda, Lawrence and Candace are unpacking their stuff)
Phineas: Ooh! It's possible Nosey has survived (Camera zooms in on him) because Lake Nose is unusually rich in zinc, a common metal used in everything from sunblock to pennies. Cool.
Candace: Oh, of course! Nosey the vicious zinc-eating dinosaur. Now it makes perfect sense! Thank you, crazy people I live with!
Phineas: It doesn't say "Eats it". He probably just absorbs it through his skin. (Camera pans to him) Ooh, look! (Flips the guide) They have pictures of him.
Candace: (Reading the guide) Elephant, log, dolphin, driftwood, tire, driftwood, rhesus monkey wearing a powdered wig, driftwood, driftwood, you aren't old enough to know what that is, driftwood, driftwood, it's usually driftwood. (Camera zooms out) So don't go humiliating me by, I don't know, building some boat (Picks up luggage cases) to find the Lake Nose Monster or something.
Phineas: Huh. Some boat to find the Lake Nose Monster (Camera zooms in on Phineas and Ferb) or something. (At Ferb) Ferb, are you not saying what I'm thinking? (Pause. The camera zooms out) Hey, where's Perry?

(Perry goes by the lake. His wrist communicator beeps)
Wrist communicator: Log in.
(A log boat sails to Perry. Perry hops into the boat, and sails to a cave with a sign that says "Danger! Keep out" sign. The sign opens up, and Perry sails into the cave)
(Log boat beeping)
(Song: Mission)
Animatronic Animals: ♪ You're gonna get a mission ♪
♪ A mission, a mission ♪
♪ A brand-new mission ♪
♪ What's it gonna be? ♪
♪ Go and get your mission ♪
♪ Your mission, your mission ♪
♪ A brand-new mission ♪
♪ We can't wait to see! ♪
Wrist communicator: Log out.
(At the lair)
(Perry exits the log)
Carl: Exit to your left, Agent P.
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. I hope you enjoyed Lair Entrance: The Ride. The agency wanted to make coming into work more exciting. It was either that or a huge bonus check.
(Perry frowns)
Major Monogram: Well, in focus group tests, 6-year-olds overwhelming preferred singing animals to a piece of paper with numbers on it, so I-- (Clears throat) Anyway, your mission: We've tracked Dr. Doofenshmirtz here to Lake Nose where we intercepted part of this phone call.
(Monitor switches to the phone call)
Operator: I'm sorry, sir. We do not deliver our hot wings to the bottom of a lake.
Doofenshmirtz: Aw come on! I'll tip 15%!
(Screen switches back to Major Monogram)
Major Monogram: Our analysts agree: Evil, chicken wings, underwater, 15%. It's a recipe for disaster. It's up to you to stop him, Agent P.
(Perry salutes)

(Back at Lake Nose...)
Phineas: (At the dock with a boat) I think we're all set to get definitive proof that Nosey really exists.
Candace: (Walks onto the dock wearing lifeguard uniform) All right, what are you two up to?
Phineas: We've just built a boat to find the Lake Nose Monster.
Candace: What? Didn't I specifically tell you not to do specifically, exactly just that?
Phineas: Actually, specifically, you said not to humiliate you by doing that. So we won't!
Candace: Mom! Quick, I caught them red-handed!
Linda: (Walks onto the dock) What is going on out here?
Candace: All right, so where is it?
Phineas: Where is what?
Candace: The giant Lake Nose Monster search boat you made!
Phineas: You mean Nosebud? She's right there.
Linda: You boys made this? I'm very impressed!
Candace: What?
Linda: Well, look! They made a boat. It's actually waterproof and everything. That's pretty cool!
(Candace growls)
Linda: Okay, Candace. If you're so worried... (Calls out) Honey!
Lawrence: (Dashes to the dock) Yes, dear?
Linda: Can you please go out on the lake with the boys to make sure they don't get into any trouble?
Lawrence: (Chuckles) Well... (Dashes off and comes back wearing fishing gear) If I must. (Camera zooms into him) Well, who knows? I might even be persuaded to tell a few of my world-famous fishing stories.
Candace: Well, I guess that's kind of a punishment. But come on, Mom, that's all you're gonna do?
Linda: Right, what was I thinking? (Holds up a bottle of sunblock) Here! Don't forget to use plenty of sunblock.
Candace: But--
Phineas: Look! Zinc.
(Ding)
Linda: Sweetie, aren't you gonna be late for your first lifeguard shift?
Candace: All right, give me some zinc.
(At the beach)
Candace: (While carrying a surfboard) Okay, be cool and confident. Cool and confident. Hey, Jeremy! (Jazzy music plays) So, what do you think?
Jeremy: You look great!
Captain: So, you're the famous Candace Flynn? (Pulls out his hand) Bob Webber.
Candace: (Shakes hands) Thanks for the lifeguard job, Mr. Webber.
Bob: "Mr. Webber"? Pshaw! Mr. Webber's my father. Call me "Captain Webber".
Candace: Uh, okay.
Bob: (Snaps his fingers) Okay! You two take care of my beach now.
Candace: Okay.
Bob: (Snaps his fingers) Okay! And watch out for Nosey! (Laughs)
Candace and Jeremy: (Feign chuckle) Uh, okay.
(Out at Lake Nose)
Bob: (Snaps his fingers) (Echoing) Okay!
Lawrence: ...So he said, "Try ignoring it and hope it goes away. (Camera zooms into them) And you know what? It did. After 17 weeks.
Phineas: Wow, Dad, great story. (Ferb raises his hand and Phineas puts it down) Uh, we're gonna start our search for Nosey now, okay?
Bob: (Snaps his fingers) (Echoing) Okay!
Lawrence: Oh, did I ever tell you boys about the time I caught the infamous Big Mouth Ramon?
Phineas: Yes!
Lawrence: Splendid! Then I'll set the scene: (Phineas and Ferb stand onto a circle spot which is an elevator. The elevator goes down) A chilly April morning, 1980. (As he speaks the elevator descends) Disco was on the way out and it had just begun to dawn on everybody they looked absolutely ridiculous in every photo taken of them in... (The elevator stops and dings, and it's door opens)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb...
Bob: (Snaps his fingers) (Echoing) Okay!
Phineas: (He and Ferb run out of the elevator) Let's find us a lake monster.
(Camera switches to Marco Schnozolo, attached being lowered into the water. The rope's arm drops it, causing Marco Schnozolo to float)
Phineas: She's in the drink. Do we have eyes?
(Ferb presses the controller buttons, and the screen turns on. Camera switches to Marco Schnozolo)
Phineas: If anything's gonna get proof of Nosey, it's Marco Schnozolo.
(Back at the beach)
Jeremy: Don't worry, Candace. To be honest, not much happens around here.
Candace: Aw, too bad. I guess we'll just be forced to kick back and have fun.
Jeremy: Yeah! We could take turns saving each other.
Candace: Ah, yeah.
(Song: Save You Save Me)
♪ I'll save you! (I'll save you!) ♪
♪ You'll save me! (You'll save me!) ♪
♪ We'll Save Everyone! ♪
♪ You're gonna need ♪
♪ Mouth-to-mouth ♪
♪ T-L-C ♪
♪ P-R-E ♪
♪ M-T-Venus ♪
♪ and Mars ♪
Jeremy: Candace? (Snaps his fingers) Candace!
Candace: Huh? (Blushes) Oh, sorry.
Jeremy: As I was saying, being a lifeguard takes focus and concentration.
Candace: Focus, right.
Jeremy: If you just keep a calm, cool head, you'll be fine.
Candace: (Gasps) THE LAKE NOSE MONSTER!!!! EVERYBODY, (Rings the bell) OUT OF THE WATER!!! (Screams)
(Everyone screams)
Candace: (On a megaphone) GET OUT! RUN! (Screams)
(Everybody flees from the water. Candace screams into her megaphone at two people, who are reading)
Bob: Huh? Wha--? What?
(Candace screams into her megaphone at a duck, then screams into two megaphones)
Bob: Everyone, please, calm down! (The crowd stampedes on him)
Candace: (Pulling a woman's arm) Go, ma'am, leave your child! There's no time! (Whistle blows) Save yourself!
Jeremy: (Blows whistle) Hey, Candace!
(Candace lets go of the woman's arm, and falls)
Jeremy: Everybody calm down! We're safe, look! (Picks the "Lake Nose Monster" up) It-- It's just some driftwood.
Candace: Driftwood? (Chuckles nervously) Sorry, everyone. It's safe. You can come back, okay?
Bob: (Comes out of his stampede hole and snaps his fingers) That was not okay.

(Underwater, Doofenshmirtz's submarine is seen. Inside the cab the doorbell (Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! jingle) rings)
Doofenshmirtz: Hmm?
(The handle rotates and the door opens)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? (Chuckles) Thank goodness, I-- I thought you were the guy with my hot wings. In two more minutes, my order will be free! Yes!
(Perry pulls out Doof's hot wings out of his backpack)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh for crying out loud! (Takes the hot wings) Fine. Okay, what was that? 15 bucks? All right, here's 10, 11, I got more here. Hold on. 1, 2, 3, 4, there! $15! And don't forget your tip! (Presses a button on the steering wheel, activating a diving helmet trap. He chuckles) Pretty good, huh? (Camera zooms out) So, Perry the Platypus... (Bites off a hot wing) I bet you're wondering why I'm sitting down here at the bottom of a lake. Well, the answer is simple. Mmm-mmm! This is really good, man. You want some? (Takes a box with the red wings) Here, here. (Perry takes a hot wing) Take the blue cheese. (Perry takes the blue cheese and pours it on the red wing) Do you know, I-- I prefer the ranch. Take the blue cheese. (Perry bite the red wing, and Doof holds up a napkin) Here's a napkin. (Perry takes the napkin) Anyway, the answer why I'm here is simple. Zinc. Lake Nose has a ton of zinc, and this machine goes around and filters all the zinc from the water. (Camera zooms out, showing a zinc tank) See, see? Zinc! So I figured I'd go around collecting all the zinc, and then use that zinc in some evil way to rule the world! You know, with zinc. Just think of the evil uses that off with zinc! (Pause. He looks around) I mean, seriously, can you think of some? Cause I got nothing. (Walks to a chart) I mean, look at here with all the good uses for zinc. Huh? All this good stuff, and over here? Nothing. All I got is "Some evil "Zinc Ray-Inator" or something, and, and look here! I wrote "Big laundry". I-- I don't even remember what the reason was, so I assumed I remembered some big genius Idea. Big laundry. (Deep voice) Big laundry. (Normal voice) I, it-- It's crazy! I'm a crazy person.

(Cut back to the beach.)
Bob: (snap) Okay! Candace, since it's your first day and you are understandably eager to impress old Captain Webber, I'll give you another chance.
Candace: Thank you, Captain Webber. Don't worry, from now on, I'll be okay.
Bob: (snap) Okay!
Candace: Well, at least the beach is empty now. (to jeremy) It makes our lives a lot easier.
Woman 1: (offscreen) Hey, is this where they saw Nosey?
Man 1: Come on!
Man 2: You bring the camcorder?
Candace: So...many...people!
Jeremy: Don't worry, Candace. Just stick with me and I'll get you through this, okay?
Bob: (snap) Okay! Jeremy, we're gonna have to move you down to Station 7 to cover this crowd, okay?
Jeremy: Uh, okay.
Bob: (snap) Okay! (leaves) Candace, you stay here.
Candace: WHAT?! Wait...by myself?! But—
Man 1: Let's be unsafe!
Man 2: I'm gonna run with scissors!
Woman: I brought some glass to the beach!

(Cut back to underwater.)
Phineas: (offscreen) Here, Nosey, Nosey, Nosey. Hey, look, Ferb, it's a red herring! I say we follow it and see where it leads us.
(The red herring swims, but then is covered by a shadow. The red herring looks terrified, but before what is producing the shadow can be shown, the picture goes static.)
Phineas: What was that? (The giant line begins moving and comes apart.) Check the perimeter cameras! (Ferb walks up to the perimeter cameras, but one by one, they all also go offline.) Without the cameras down here, we're— (The lights go off) blind.
(A red light switches on.)
Computer: Emergency power on.
(Phineas and Ferb walk up to the window.)
Phineas: So much for getting proof. What was that? Did we find the Lake Nose Monster?
Ferb: No. (The chomped off camera sinks down.) It found us. (The lights go out.)

Part II
(Scene opens up on Phineas and Ferb's submarine.)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb, fire it up! (Ferb flicks a switch and we hear the turbine engines rolling.) Cool! That's weird. All the cameras are still down. It's gonna be much harder to get proof that Nosey exists now. You man the starboard window, I'll go portside. (A sea creature appears behind him.) We'll see who spots Nosey first. (Phineas looks at the menacing creature behind him.) I win! (to Nosey) Stay calm. (Nosey growls and Ferb backs away) No sudden movements. Okay, try panicking and making a lot of sudden movements. (Nosey grabs the camera that Ferb is holding and sinks down and smashes it to pieces with his tail.) I don't think Nosey was attacking us at all. He was just going after the cameras. He must not want the world to know he really exists.

(Cut to Lawrence in the middle of his story.)
Lawrence: It was either back up the fire escape or lose the pants altogether. Then suddenly it hit me.

(Cut to Candace, who gets hit by a soccer ball.)
Candace: Ow! Hey, watch it, brats! (Cut to her approaching a couple of kids burying their friend in the sand.) No! You're supposed to bury everything except the head! Hey, no! We do not drink the lake water! (Cut to two kids holding cups. Wide shot to reveal an older man sipping the water through a drinking straw.) That goes for your children, too, sir!
Little Girl: Excuse me. My daddy came to see Nosey, but I'm scared. Is he really coming back?
Candace: Aw, I don't know, sweetie. I was being silly before and overreacted. Sometimes we see things that aren't really there, but don't worry. I promise I'll protect you if...I...see... (Wide shot of the lake. Nosey's head appears out of the water.) THE LAKE NOSE MONSTER!!! (Everyone jumps out of the water screaming.) Quick, kid, run as fast as your little legs can carry you! Follow the train tracks north! You should hit Ackerton by sundown! Blend in! It's a college town! Get a retail job and save up enough for a bus ticket to the Canadian border! Someone will get in touch with you when the coast is clear!
Bob: Candace! Is this your Lake Nose Monster?
(Bob pulls up what is revealed to be Baljeet on an inflatable tube shaped like the Lake Nose Monster.)
Candace: Huh?
Baljeet: (nervously) Surprise?
Bob: You're in big trouble, young man! (snap) Okay! Just a little prankster! We're safe!
(Buford pops out, to reveal that Baljeet was tied to him.)
Baljeet: I thought you said this would be funny.
Buford: It is! You got in trouble! (He laughs loud and long.)
(Cut to Bob speaking with Candace.)
Bob: Candace, what on earth are you doing?
Candace: I'm sorry, Captain Webber, I thought I saw—
Bob: I know. Look, I'll let you in on a secret. There is no Lake Nose Monster. It's just a little tall tale, like Bigfoot or that face on Mars. See, they pretend that Nosey is real so tourists from all over the world come here and buy Nosey T-shirts and snowglobes. But.. (Throws the snowglobe away)
Man: (offscreen) Ow!
Bob: ...it's just pretend.
Candace: Okay.
Bob: (snap) Okay! So that's it. No matter what you see, I never again want to hear you say—
Candace: (gasps) THE LAKE NOSE MONSTER!!!!! RUN FOR YOUR LIVES!!!! HURRY!!!
(Everyone screams and runs Bob over.)

(Cut back to Phineas and Ferb watching Nosey.)
Phineas: (to Ferb) Hey, do you still have that little digital camera you got for Bastille Day? (Ferb takes it out and gives it to his stepbrother. Phineas snaps a photo. This angers Nosey more. He goes up to the window.) Bup-bup-bup, check this out. (He throws the camera on the ground and it shatters to pieces. He stomps on the remains.) See, boy? Your secret's safe with us. (Nosey smiles and disappears.) Hey! Where'd he go? (Nosey appears in the submarine) Is it me, or is the Lake Nose Monster easier to find than Perry?

(Speaking of which, cut to Perry who is watching Doof enjoy his hot wings.)
Doofenshmirtz: Mmmm... Ooh, wow! (chuckles) Time out, man, I need a breather. (He falls to the floor on his back) Oh! I wish I didn't eat the hot and spicy right after the honey glazed. Speaking of wishes, you know what I never understood? Genies. They tell you to wish for anything you want and then they add some terrible twist. Like you-you wish to jump high, so he turns you into a frog. What—? Why? Who gains from this? The genie? I— Where's the benefit? (Perry gets out a device to make his escape.) You should be fighting genies, man, not me. I'm not the problem. Genies. Genies are the problem. (gasp) I got it! (Perry stops cutting through the bars and Doof sits up) Zinc foil! (Pause as Doof lies back down) Eh, not really evil, is it?

(Cut back to Phineas, Ferb and Nosey.)
Phineas: Here. You want some corn dogs, boy? (Nosey sniffs the dogs and smiles. He takes a big bite out of them. He smiles and claps his fins happily.) He likes it!
(Song: My Wettest Friend)
♪ I know a special someone ♪
♪ Who lives under the sea ♪
♪ He's my wettest friend! ♪
♪ (He's my wettest friend) ♪
♪ My wettest friend ♪
♪ He's not the shortest, ♪
♪ He's not the orange-est, ♪
♪ He's not the one who smells ♪
♪ Most like masking tape ♪
♪ Now, I will always love him ♪
♪ I hope it never slips away ♪
♪ Cause he's my wettest friend ♪
♪ (He's my wettest friend) ♪
♪ My wettest friend ♪
♪ (He's so sopping, yeah) ♪
♪ 'Cause he's my wettest friend ♪
♪ (Don't let him plug anything in!) ♪
♪ My wettest friend ♪
(Phone rings.)
Phineas: Hey! Someone's calling! (Cut to a videophone. Phineas answers it. Baljeet appears on screen.) Y'ello?
Baljeet: Phineas, is your refrigerator running?
Phineas: Uh, we don't have a refrigerator, Baljeet.
Baljeet: Then you better go catch it? (The gang all stare. Baljeet speaks to someone offscreen.) I thought you said that would be funny.
Buford: (appearing onscreen) It was! You look stupid! (laughs) It works on so many levels. (feed gets cut off)
Phineas: Oh, hey, Nosey. This is just our videophone. See, when we talk to people, we can see them on this screen. (Shows an image of himself and Nosey on the screen.) And this is what they see. (Nosey gasps.) What's wrong? (Nosey gets welled up with tears and snarls and leaves.) Oh, wait, no! We weren't taking your picture! Come back.

(Cut to Candace sitting on a rock.)
Candace: I can't believe he fired me. And this time I actually saw it!
Jeremy: (approaching her) Candace, are you okay?
Candace: Okay, I know it sounds crazy, Jeremy, but I saw it, I really did! I mean, not the times when I saw it and it wasn't it, but this last time, when I saw it and it was it! You believe me, don't you?
Jeremy: Well...mm...
Candace: (sighs) It's okay. Earlier this morning, I wouldn't have believed me either. In fact, I was even mocking my... (gets an idea) brothers! That's it! They'll vindicate me! They're out there right now getting proof that Nosey is real!

(Cut to Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: I can't believe it! We were probably the first people Nosey ever trusted and look what happened. Come on, Ferb! Let's suit up!

(Cut to Doofenshmirtz's underwater lair, which begins to wheel away.)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, it looks like we got all of the zinc from this area. It's time to move on to the next quadrant! "Quadrant." "Quad-rant." Quad—It's—It's a weird word when you think about it. "Quadrant." "Quad-rant." (Perry resumes filing the bars.) Quad—It's—See? Now it doesn't even sound like a word.

(Cut to Phineas and Ferb in their scuba gear in the water.)
Phineas: Hey, look! It's Nosey! (Cut to Nosey looking sad.) He doesn't look too good. (They swim up to him.)  What's the matter, boy? (Nosey groans. Phineas looks at his watch.) Oh, no. The zinc levels in the lake seem to be dropping. Nosey needs zinc in order to survive. (Ferb takes out the sunblock their mother gave them earlier.) Sunblock? With zinc! Good thinkin', Ferb! Here, Nosey, this'll make you feel better. (Phineas pours some sunblock onto Nosey's head. Nosey revives but then looks scared at something and swims away.) Where do you suppose he's going? (The ground shakes) What's that? (Doofenshmirtz's device comes up to them and sucks practically everything in its path. Phineas and Ferb hold onto a branch. Nosey returns and hits it.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, wait, w-what was that? (Perry jumps out of the scuba mask and the bars drop off.) Huh? You were trying to escape?! After I shared my wings with you! Well, granted,  I did trap you like a monkey— (Perry punches him.)

(Cut back to Phineas and Ferb's submarine. Nosey brings them back to safety.)
Phineas: Thanks, Nosey! (Phineas and Ferb take off their helmets.) We understand now. If we prove to the world that you really exist, they'd never just let you live here in peace, huh? (Nosey shakes his head and dives down.) It's too bad you don't exist, Nosey, cuz if you did, I think we'd become great friends. (Winks. Nosey winks back.)

(Cut back to Lawrence.)
Lawrence: I said, "John, it's great, I love the tune but the words. 'All you need is a Phillips head screwdriver', it just doesn't really ring true, does it?" (Phineas and Ferb reappear on the boat.)

(Cut to Doof and Perry having it out.)
Doofenshmirtz: I've got you now, Perry the Platyp— (He trips on a wing. The lair rams into the submarine and the boat begins speeding.)
Lawrence: Oho!  There was simply no way we could get through the entire petting zoo—
(Cut back to Doof and Perry. Perry looks up and sees the boat.)
Doofenshmirtz: Heh, any day now. Hey, where are you going?! (Perry goes into the bathroom and slams the door.) Oh—Oh, I see. (The toilet is heard flushing) That's—That's the hot wings working there. Ha ha ha. (A knocking is heard. Pan left to reveal Perry outside the lair.) Hey, how did you—?! Oh, you got out through the—I—I see.
(Perry makes his way up while Lawrence is continuing his story indistinctly.)
♪ Agent P! ♪
Lawrence: So, anyway, there I was, four hours from the nearest dental supply store...
(Perry chatters)
Lawrence and Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry!

(Cut to Bob lounging and enjoying some wings of his own.)
Bob: Mmm...delicious. Best hot wings in town. (snap) Okay! I think I'll go for a little swim. That whole "waiting 20 minutes after you eat" thing is all a big hoax. (Takes out a snowglobe.) It's just so we can sell these cool "Kid with a cramp" snowglobes. (Bob wades in the lake and looks through his binoculars.) Hmm. That boat's moving pretty fast. I'd better get out of the w—Oh! Cramp!
(Cut to Candace who gasps as she hears Bob groaning. Cut to Nosebud speeding along. Cut to Bob.)
Bob: Can't move! (Cut to a shot of the snowglobe followed by a closeup of Bob's lips like in Citizen Kane.) Nosebud. (He drops the snow globe. Candace jumps on Bob and gets him out of the way.)
(The boat flies out of the water and crashes into a lifeguard tower finally stopping in the woods.)
Lawrence: ...and that is how I caught Big Mouth Ramone.
Phineas: Cool story, Dad.

(Cut to Candace and Jeremy with Bob.)
Candace: How you feeling, Captain Webber?
Bob: (snap) Okay! Thanks to you, Candace. How would you like to be reinstated as a Lake Nose lifeguard?
Candace: Well... (snap) Okay!
(Jeremy and Candace giggle, but Bob just looks at both of them.)
Bob: Don't get it.
(Phineas, Ferb and Perry approach Candace.)
Phineas: Oh, hey, Candace!
Candace: Did you get it? Did you get the proof that Nosey really exists?
Phineas: I can honestly tell you that a ferocious, man-eating lake monster does not exist in Lake Nose.
(Everyone groans.)
Guy: Aw, man!
Candace: Wait. So does a non-ferocious, friendly lake monster exist? Do you have proof of that? Hmm?
Phineas: Do we have proof? No. (winks, points and smiles)
Ferb: Well, if such a creature did exist, I believe its habitat and safety would be all of our responsibility to look after and protect.
Man: Hey, wait a minute. Everyone, that British kid is saying something really, really...boring.
Kid: Yeah, let's get out of here!
(The crowd leaves.)
Phineas: I didn't think it was boring, Ferb.
Candace: You know what I think? I think you two found Nosey, but you didn't bring back any proof, specifically just to make me look foolish, in front of all of these— (Sees a chomped camera in the lake) Wait a minute. (Picks it up) Look at this! Only one thing could've made a bite mark this big! Yes! I have proof! Now they'll have to...believe...me... (Sees the sad expressions on her brothers' faces.) Or maybe you were specifically trying to protect Nosey. (Phineas smiles.) Oh. I'm gonna have to do the right thing here, aren't I?
Phineas: We're proud of you, sis. (Ferb gives a thumbs up.)
Candace: (throwing the camera in the garbage) Yeah, yeah. Candace is crazy, but the monster is safe. (Nosey appears out of the water and smiles at Candace.) Oh, great. Look who finally showed up! (Nosey kisses her.)  Fine.

End credits
(Open up on Doof still in the lair.)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, looks like I'm stuck down here. Guess I'll have time to figure out what "big laundry" mea—Oh. (sees a huge pile of dirty clothes) Oh, that's right. It's Tuesday. (gasps) I know! (runs to the bathroom) I can get out the same way Perry the Platypus did! (Toilet is heard flushing and water comes out from under the door.) Oh! Oh! Oh, that didn't work at all! Oh, now I really gotta do the laundry!



(Scene opens up showing Phineas, Ferb, and Perry in the backyard.)
Phineas: What to do, what to do, what to do today. Any ideas, Ferb?
(Ferb shrugs)
Phineas: What about you, Perry? Bursting with any plans?
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: Ah. I'll never get tired of you doing that.
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: Awesome. (Chatters) Come on, Ferb. Fire one off.
Ferb: (Chatters)
(All chattering)
Phineas: I wonder what that means.
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb! I know what we're gonna do today! Let's build a Perry translator. We can finally figure out what (Chatters) means. Some say he's just a mindless platypus, but he might actually be thinking some profound thoughts. Just like another quiet animal I know.
(All chattering)
(Scene shifts to Candace's room)
Candace: Stacy, it's been four days. (Rolls her chair to a picture referencing Cinderella. The faces are replaced with Candace and Jeremy's faces) I'm not expecting Prince Charming to bring me a glass slipper or anything, but a phone call would be nice. (Phone beeping) Hold on, I've got another call. (Gasps) (Holds up the phone, showing a heart with Jeremy's face in it) It's him! Call you back! Bye! (Phone beeps) Hello?
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. It's Jeremy.
Candace: Well, good morrow to you, sir.
Jeremy: Huh?
Candace: (Chuckles) I mean, what's up?
Jeremy: I just got the new Destruction Mayhem 3 game. I thought maybe you'd like to come over and try it out.
Candace: (Sarcastically) Oh, yeah, you, me, and little Suzy playing a video game, huh?
Jeremy: Suzy? No. She's at her friend's house. (The door knocks and he pauses the game) Uh, hold on, Candace. Someone's at the door. (Opens the door)
Candace: (Panting) So, video games?
(Song: Quirky Worky Song (Instrumental))
(Back at the backyard, Phineas sets up the animal translator's mic and pounds it)
Phineas: All set over here!
(Ferb plugs in a tube and flips a switch. He thumbs up signalling it's set)
Phineas: Okay. Now all we need is our subject. Where's Perry?

(Perry slides down a tube and lands on his chair. Inside the lair, the lights go up and down as electricity fizzes in the background)
Major Monogram: Ah, there you are, Agent P. Sorry about the lights. We're using an alternative energy source, and haven't got it working smoothly yet. I decided it was high time our operation went green. All right, assignment, assignment. Oh, let's see... We're saving paper by printing on the same one over and over again, so... Uh, sorry for the life on me. (Turns the paper, showing black ink all over it) I can't make this out. Hmm... Well, I'm sure it says something about Doofenshmirtz. Go get him!
(Perry salutes and leaves)
Major Monogram: (Gets up and walks off-screen) For crying out loud, Carl, (Carl is seen pedaling the generator, panting) pedal faster. I gotta check my E-mail.

(Perry comes out of a fence board)
Phineas: Perry! (Perry switches to pet mode. Phineas walks on-screen) Oh, there you are. Come on, boy. Here, just take a seat. (Puts him on a stool) Stay. All set.
(Ferb turns on the translator)
Phineas: (Holding up a mic) Okay, Perry. It's time to hear what's on your mind. Hit me with your (Chatters) shot.
(Perry is about to chatter when Isabella interrupts)
Isabella: Hey, Phineas! What'cha dooooin'?
Phineas: Oh. Ferb and I invented a Perry translator so we can finally figure out what he's saying.
Isabella: That's great. (Her face becomes sheepish) But don't you need Perry to be here for it to work?
Phineas: (Turns his head, noticing Perry is gone) That was weird. Perry was here a second ago.
Translator: I sure love worms. (Phineas and Ferb hear this and turn to Isabella, thinking she said that)
Isabella: Don't look at me.
Translator: Big, fat, juicy worms!
(Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella hear the voice and turn to the microphone on the translator. A red bird is shown on the mic. The bird then chirps into the microphone.)
Translator: Gotta find 'em, gotta eat 'em!
(The bird flies off)
Phineas and Isabella: Whoa.
(The bird lands on a tree branch)
Phineas: Hello, birdie. Do you understand me?
(Bird chirps)
Translator: Aren't you a little young for inter-speciel communication?
Phineas: Yes. Yes I am. How about you, squirrel? Do you understand me? (Points the mic at the squirrel)
(Squirrel squeaks)
Translator: Oh, I do. Do you have any nuts for me?
Isabella: That's so cute.
Squirrel: (Squeaks)
Translator: Yeah yeah yeah, I'm cute. I'm cute. Now, nut me.
Phineas: Wow. This works on all animals.
Isabella: Hey, do you think it would work on my dog, Pinky? He barks at the door when a doorbell rings on TV. I'd love to explain the whole concept to him.
Phineas: Couldn't hurt to try.
Isabella: (Runs off) Great! I'll be right back.
Phineas: Wow! With a device like this, all animals can finally say what's on their minds.
(The bird chirps and flies off, and chirps as it flies. The pigeons hear it, and they fly off. A dog hears it, barks, and enters a dog door, barking at the cats. The cats meow and run out the dog door, and more animals run down the street to the driveway at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
(Scene shifts to the Johnson house)
Jeremy: I'm really glad you wanted to come over, Candace. Most girls really aren't into stuff like this.
Candace: Pssh. Most girls. I guess I'm just cool like that. Yup, love me my video games. (A poodle pops up) Who's this?
Jeremy: Yeah, that's Suzy's dog. (Rubs her head) Who's a good girl? Who's a good girl? Yeah.
Candace: Yeah. Who's the good girl? Who's the good girl?
(The poodle growls at Candace)
Candace: Obviously, not me.

♪ Doofenshmirtz out in the forest! ♪
(Perry snaps a stick on the ground. Doofenshmirtz turns around)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? Don't be shy, It's just me. Come here. (A cage falls) (Laughs) You like my new cage? I got it from a second-hand shark supply store. It was half off, because you know, something bit half of it off. So, here's my evil plan: With this remote, I will open the Danville Dam, flooding all the streets and creating beautiful waterways! Like the canals in Venice, Italy! (Italian music plays) Or to a lesser extent, Venice, California. (Surf rock music plays) But how will people get around? They will have to buy my latest invention! It's like a car, but it can drive on the surface of water. (Pulls the tarp) Behold! You like it? I call it the Buoyancy Operated Aquatic Transport, or BO-AT for short. Everyone will want one.

(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher house, where there's a long line of animals waiting to use the animal translator)
(Cat meows)
Phineas: Yeah, I see what you're saying, but you don't have an argument. They're giving you 12 cans a day. Technically, you're not underfed. All right, next!
(Scottish Terrier barks)
Phineas: Oh yeah. I've been getting a lot of complaints about the vacuum. Just let it out.
(Scene shifts back to the Johnson house)
Candace: Hey, look at this. I'm getting the hang of it. (Game beeping)
Jeremy: No, actually Candace, you just paused it. (Game sounds) And now you've reset the game.
(Liquid splatting)
Candace: (Gasps) Oh no. These we're brand new.
Jeremy: Hey, bad dog! That's weird. Suzy trained her so well.
Candace: (Suspiciously) I see. Suzy trained her.
I can't believe this. Hey, that's my shoe!
Jeremy: Uh, okay in there, Candace?
Candace: Yeah, yeah. (at poodle) (Gasps) Don't even think about it! (Gasps, throws paper towels into toilet)
Poodle: (Drops shoe)
(Candace flushes the toilet)
Candace: Where's my shoe? No, no, no! (Grunting)
(Splash)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. Ready for the third level? (Door slams) Candace?
(Scene shifts to the backyard at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Isabella: Phineas?
Phineas: What's up?
Isabella: Okay. We've got 78 complaints about food quantity, 42 requests for belly rubs, and we're still trying to explain TV to Pinky.
Milly: Again, forget the idea of little people in there.
Isabella: So, what exactly are we supposed to do with this information?
Phineas: Hmm...
Ginger: Okay. The Jones's hamster is gonna lose it if someone doesn't oil the wheel in its cage.
Hamster: Hmph!
Ginger: Well, what now?
Phineas: That's what we'll do. Let's tell all the owners what their pets want! Starting with this little fella right here. (hamster squeaks) Sorry. Lady. Lady right here. (at Candace) Hey, Candace!
Candace: What is going on here?
Phineas: We made an animal translator! We'll tell you all about it later. Right now we're on a mission. Come on, guys.
Isabella: See ya, Candace!
Candace: An animal translator? I have had it up to HERE with stupid animals today! Why would you wanna know what stupid animals are saying? Oh, I can tell you what they'll say: "I'm an animal and I bite my own heinie!" "I've got a small cranial capacity!" "Look at me! I don't have opposable thumbs!" (The animals start to become angry at Candace's statements and begin growling at her) "I eat with my face!" "I sweat through my tongue!" "I'm a furry-flea bitten loser! LIKE ANY OTHER ANIMAL ON THIS PLANET!"
("planet" echoes)
Doberman: (barks into mic)
Translator: Get her!
(animals growling)
Candace: (screams)
(Song: Perfect Day)
♪ It's a perfect day, ♪
♪ It's in the mid '70s ♪
(Candace screams)
♪ Humidity at 60% ♪
♪ It's a perfect day, ♪
♪ Not a cloud in the sky and I ♪
♪ Can say with out fear and dissent ♪
♪ It's a picture postcard perfect kind of ♪
♪ A summer afternoon, ♪
♪ It's a perfect day ♪
♪ (Ahh, ahh, ahh) ♪
♪ It's a perfect day ♪
♪ Yeah ♪
♪ It's a perfect day, ♪
♪ The birds are singing ♪
♪ The bees are pollinating the flowers ♪
♪ It's a perfect day, ♪
♪ The fauna is fawning ♪
♪ And frolicking away all the hours ♪
♪ It's a picture postcard perfect kind of ♪
♪ A summer afternoon, ♪
♪ It's a perfect day ♪
(Candace screaming)
♪ (Ahh, ahh, ahh) ♪
♪ It's a perfect day (X3) ♪
(animals shrieking)
Band members: Oof! (Groaning)

Doofenshmirtz: Now, Perry the Platypus, with a push of this button, we will move out of the automobile age, and USHER IN THE AGE OF THE BO-AT! I'm driving on water! Look at me! I'm BO-AT-ing! Woo-hoo! Living the dream! Perry the Platypus? How did-- I always forget you are a semi-aquatic mammal. (Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz in the face)
Candace: MOM! MOM! ANIMALS HATE ME!
Linda: Oh, honey. That's just ridiculous. Perry likes you.
(Animals growling, water floods them away)
Candace: (sighs) Huh. Huh. Never mind.
(Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz in the face)
Doofenshmirtz: Aah!
(Perry the Platypus Theme instrumental)
Doofenshmirtz: No! Don't open the Metropolitan Oval Aquatic Trench! (moat opens up) No, no, no, no, no, no! Hey, look! It spells "MOAT". I never noticed that before. Curse you, Perry the Platypus!

Candace: Mom! You're here! Come on, come on! You gotta see this!
Linda: Candace, will you--
Candace: Aha! (gasps) I can't believe it. Everything is still here. There it is! They built an animal translator!
Linda: Oh, that's adorable.
Candace: Wait. No, it is not!
Phineas: Hey, Mom. We built an animal translator. Look!
Candace: See? You're gonna see. It really works! Heeheeheeheehee.
Phineas: Okay, Perry. We've been waiting all day for this.
(Perry chatters)
Translator: (plays back Perry's chatter)
Phineas: Oh, well. I guess it doesn't mean anything.
Linda: Aw, you know he's saying, "You guys are the best!" Now, come on everyone. Inside for some lemonade.
Candace: Bu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu-but... (sighs)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Jeremy?
Jeremy: Hey, where'd you go?
Candace: Well, I-
Jeremy: I brought you your shoe.
Candace: Oh.
Jeremy: Oh, don't worry. I washed it. Here. Allow me.
(Candace faints)
Jeremy: Uh, Candace? You 'kay?
Candace: (Sighs) Enchanted.



(Scene opens up panning right, showing the back of the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Lawrence: Ah, yes. The Daily Crossword puzzle. Today's theme: Tip of the Day. 1, across; The metal tip of an umbrella. Let's see... uh, honey?
Linda: The Ferrule.
Lawrence: Yes, of course. 2, across; Uh, the tip on the elbow. Honey?
Linda: The olecranon.
Lawrence: I thought so. Yes, easy-peasy, that one. Next, the tip of the shoelace. Yes, yes, that little hard tip at the end of a shoelace is... Honey?
Linda: I don't know.
Lawrence: You don't know?
Candace: Ugh! It's like living with a bunch of monkeys! Just look it up on the computer!
Phineas: But isn't it weird none of us know it's name?
Candace: No, that's why they make smart word box for tell monkey hard brain hurty things.
Phineas: Removing prepositions makes it more condescending.
Candace: Wow. 20 people emailed me the same video. I gotta check this out.
(Techno music starts; Man grunting)
Candace: (Laughs) That is so humiliating. I have to send this to Jeremy, Jenny, The Track Team, Chicago Joe-
Phineas: So, uh, Candace? Smart word box find name shoelace tip?
Phineas/Ferb: (Imitates sizzling)
Candace: Ugh. Could you wait? I'm dealing with something that matters here. Ugh! The internet crashed!
Phineas: I know. Baljeet! This kinda stuff is right up his alley.
Baljeet: Useless Shoelace Facts, Volume 8. "The plastic or metal tip on the end of a shoelace is called an... aglet. A-G-L-E-T. It is one of the most useful, yet tragically ignored inventions in all of history".
Phineas: Gosh, Ferb. That seems like a great injustice, huh. (At Baljeet) Oh well, thanks Baljeet.
Lawrence: Okay. A-G-L-E-T. Brilliant!
Linda: Oh, hi boys.
Phineas: Aglet, Mom.
Linda: Aglet you too, Phineas.
Phineas: No, Mom. The shoelace tip - It's an aglet.
Linda: How interesting!
Phineas: Yeah! Nobody seems to know the word. I wonder why?
Candace: I'll tell you why! Because...it doesn't matter! You can live a long, happy life without knowing the tip of the shoelace is called a...
Phineas: Aglet --
Candace: It doesn't matter!
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
Lawrence: Oh, look at this, honey. 27, across, 5 letters; "Where's blank?"
(Cut to Agent P in his lair)
Major Monogram: Agent P, Doofenshmirtz has crippled the entire worldwide internet by spreading a so-called viral video over the whole planet. Watch carefully, Agent P. What you're about to see may be the masterstroke of an evil genius which distracted us with smaller schemes while secretly moving us into checkmate.
(Video/Techno music starts)
Doofenshmirtz: I am a superstar! (Grunting, falls into toilet) (Toilet flushes) It won't stop flushing!
(Agent P grins)
Major Monogram: Agent P, this is no laughing matter. We need you to find out what he's up to and stop him. Behind you, rising dramatically from the floor, is a new, high-tech device. It's called a Universal Delete Button. It can delete any file on the internet from every computer on the planet.
Carl: (Laughs) "It won't stop flushing!"
Major Monogram: Carl, I told you. There's nothing funny about a man in his underwear skating into a toilet.
Carl: Of course, sir.
Major Monogram: Now, limericks. Limericks are funny.
(Cut to the backyard)
Phineas: The reason we called you all here today is to raise awareness for the aglet.
Isabella: What's an aglet?
Phineas: Ferb, enlighten us.
(Lyrical music)
Ferb: (Pulls down a chart)
Phineas: The aglet.
Isabella: Oh, that's what it's called!
Phineas: Our goal is to bring the plight of the aglet to the world's attention. First, we'll use these shoelaces to make Aglet Awareness Ribbons. (French accent) Never forget the aglet!
Baljeet: You are going to waste a whole day promoting aglets? Who is going to care?
Buford: If you diss aglets one more time, I'll fray your head so bad, it won't fit through your shirt hole!
Baljeet: Aglets. Yay.
(Upbeat theme starts)
Phineas: Hey, Candace. The more you know about aglets, the better your life's gonna be.
Candace: No one's life will be made better knowing the whatever-you-call-it! (Walks off)
Phineas: (whispers) Aglet.
Man: (Walks up to them) Excuse me, what did you say?
Phineas: Aglet. It's that little plastic tip at the end of a shoelace.
Man: Aglet?
Girl: (Off screen) Aglet?! (Runs up) Oh, Louis, I will marry you!
Louis: Aglet.
Boss: (Runs up) The promotion's yours!
Louis: Aglet. (Poof) My hair's grown back!
Man #2: W-what's going on?
Louis: The shoelace tip! It's an aglet!
Man #2: (Gasps) I can hear!
Phineas: Well, It seems to be working. Let's take it to the next level.
(Cut to Candace and Stacy in a store)
Stacy: Oh, oh! And the part when the guy rollerskated into the toilet! (Laughs)
Candace: Oh, that was sort of the only part, but yeah, I was dying!
Stacy: And everyone in the world saw that video.
Candace: I wish there was a viral video of me singing going around the world.
Stacy: I bet you'd become an instant star.
Candace: Yeah. An instant star.
Stacy: Yeah. You'd be bigger than aglets. (Reveals a ribbon on her finger)
(Record needle scratch)
Candace: Wait, what? Why do you know that word?
Stacy: Aglets are so in right now. Look.
Candace: (Screams)
Jeremy: Hey, guys. I, uh, just wanted to come with me. (Shows his ribbon) To the big aglet concert.
Candace: (Screams)

Major Monogram: (On radio) Agent P, your halo jump is a go. Go, go, go! Jump, and fall! Keep falling, and keep being a platypus! Visualize it, you're a falling plat- (Perry turns off radio)
(Harp strumming, hissing; Suspenseful music)
Doofenshmirtz: Did you ever had an old box of junk that's been sitting in the attic forever, and you think: "I bet I could just get rid of this whole box, and my life would go on completely unaffected of the loss of whatever would be inside like, for instance, an old forgotten video tape made in high school". Look in the box, Perry the Platypus. Always. Look. In. The box.
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: Moooooooooooom!
Linda: Candace? What's wrong?
Candace: Phineas and Ferb are increasing public awareness of the shoelace tip thing!
Linda: Who knew people would get so worked up over aglets? (Reveals her fingers have ribbons tied on)
(Horror theme)
Candace: NOO! (Runs to room, slams door; Knocking)
Phineas: (Muffled) Hey, Candace! Aren't you gonna come sing at the big aglet concert?
Candace: You may have infected everyone else with shoelace tip madness, but not me! They don't matter!
Phineas: Bummer. It's gonna be broadcast all over the world. You could become an instant star.
Candace: Okay, but they still don't matter!
Phineas: Uh, touché?

Doofenshmirtz: Oh, this video is ruining my life, Perry the Platypus. I- I can't even go outside my own evil lair.
Man #3: Hey, look! It's that idiot from the video! (Laughing)
Man #4: (Laughing)
Doofenshmirtz: And that's just my kitchen. What's this? (Gasps) A Universal Delete Button? Thank you, Perry the Platypus. (Light trap appears) Sorry, but deleting the video from every computer in the world isn't good enough. I have to erase it from people's minds too. Behold! The Read My Mind-inator! You see, whatever I think of appears on this screen in front. See? See? If I just hook it up to your Universal Delete Button like this... Violà! Whatever I think of, I can push this button and delete it from every mind in the Tri-State Area!

(Song: A-G-L-E-T)
(Crowd cheering)
Phineas: ♪ Through the eye of the needle ♪
♪ Time to loosen your tongue ♪
♪ Got a tip how to make ends meet ♪
All: ♪ A-G-L-E-T ♪
♪ Don't forget it ♪
Phineas: ♪ Get's us all up on our feet, yeah, yeah, yeah ♪
All: ♪ A-G-L-E-T ♪
♪ (Aglet!) Don't forget it (X6) ♪
Phineas: ♪ We're gonna tie the world together (X4) ♪
♪ One word at a time! ♪
(Guitar)
Phineas: (On P.A) Ladies and Gentlemen, my sister, Candace Flynn!
Candace: ♪ And in the end of most important thing ♪
♪ Is that we never forget ♪
♪ The end of a shoelace is called the... ♪
The... uh... (Looks at the ribbon on her finger) Wait a minute! It doesn't matter! I can't believe I was almost sucked into this!
Phineas: I can't believe you still haven't learned the word. I mean, we spelled it a bunch of times in the song.
Man #5: Sing more songs about aglets.
Woman: Yeah. Aglets are important.

Doofenshmirtz: Now, Perry the Platypus, when I press this button, whatever I'm thinking about, whatever is on this screen right here, will be erased from every mind in the Tri-State Area. Because again, to make myself perfectly clear, when I- When I press this delete button right here, whatever I'm thinking of, which will be displayed on this screen, will be deleted from every computer and- and every mind in the entire Tri-State Area. And, uh, not to find a point on it, but people who haven't seen, or- or don't remember my video will be completely unaffected. So, you know, I'm not doing any real harm. You understand, right? Good. (Trips) Oh. Oh well, that kind of, killed the moment, didn't it? Oh, shoot. My- my shoelace is all frayed. I- I'm going to have to replace the aglet. I-I always keep extras in hand. Just- just a few. Anyway, here's mud in your eye! (Laughs maniacally)

(Sign beeps)
Woman: Boo!
Candace: It! Doesn't! Matter!
(Electricity zapping)
People: 'What's going on?/What are we doing here?
Candace: Exactly! This whole thing is a pointless and stupid celebration of the fact that the shoelace tip is called, you know! What's it's!
Woman: Who cares?
Man #5: Yeah. I wear loafers.
Candace: What do you mean "Who cares?" lame-o? That's what this is all about! The name of the shoelace is the...
Man: Who cares?
Woman: Yeah! Let's get out of here!
Candace: Wait! Come back! (Stammers)
Phineas: I'm sorry, Candace. But I'm pretty sure you're the only one who cares about shoelaces here.
Candace: But-but-but-
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Now I can release you and it doesn't matter. The entire world has forgotten that humiliating video of me on roller skates. And I won't be needing this anymore! (Throws the Delete From My Mind-inator on the floor, breaking it) I'm free!
Man #3: Look! It's that idiot from the video again! (Laughs)
Man #4: Let's use mockery to keep him inside!
Doofenshmirtz: I have an ouchie. In here.

End credits
(Song: A-G-L-E-T)
Phineas: ♪ Too much information ♪
♪ But keep your eye on the ball ♪
♪ We're gonna drive it hard through the hole, yeah ♪
All: ♪ A-G-L-E-T, don't forget it ♪
Phineas: ♪ Brings us closer to our sole, yeah! ♪
All: ♪ A-G-L-E-T ♪
♪ (Aglet!) Don't forget it ♪
Phineas: ♪ We're gonna tie the world together ♪
♪ One word at a time! ♪
Candace: It doesn't matter!



(Song: Flawless Girl)
♪ You know you want to be her ♪
♪ She's a Flawless Girl (Flawless Girl) ♪
♪ All the boys say when they meet her ♪
♪ She's a Flawless Girl (Flawless Girl) ♪
♪ She's at the forefront of every trend ♪
♪ Never less than 5 foot 10 ♪
♪ And if you use our products, then ♪
♪ You can be a Flawless Girl ♪
♪ A Flawless Girl ♪
Announcer: Flawless Girl. Because nobody's perfect without using our cosmetics.
Candace: (Scoffs) I'd be so lost without Flawless Girl giving me some pointers on how to look.
Stacy: Hey, look! (Flips the magazine) It says here that Flawless Girl founder, Blanca Dishon, will be at the Mid-Summer's Festival in search of the next Flawless Girl spokes-model.
Candace: Maybe I should sign up. (Laughs) Just out of curiosity, when is the Mid-Summer's Festival?
Stacy: Probably in the middle of summer...which is about now!
(Scene cut to the street by the Flynn-Fletcher house, where Mid-Summer's Festival trucks drive by and then to Phineas and Ferb watching them)
Phineas: Oh, what do you know, it must be the middle of summer. (Beeping sound) It's the Baljeet Signal!
(Phineas and Ferb duck, and Baljeet's hologram appears on Phineas' device)
Baljeet: Phineas and Ferb, days ago, you helped me build a portal to Mars. Now, I beg you to help me win the Biggest Watermelon Contest at the festival. Help me, Phineas and Ferb. You're my only hope! (Looks around and then shuts off his hologram)
Phineas: Ferb, grab that Jr. Chemistry Set you got for Bastille Day. We're going to the festival. Hey, where's Perry?

(Scene cut to Perry, who landed on his lair's chair with a lot of water and koi)
Major Monogram: Oh, for crying out loud! Who put a secret entrance at the bottom of the neighbors' koi pond? Okay, look-look-look. To avoid a lawsuit, give the fish hats, and we'll make them agents, and uh... Ooh, right! Agent P, your mission. Um you, know, Doofenshmirtz! Go!
♪ (Perry)! ♪

(At the festival)
Phineas: Hey Baljeet, where's your watermelon?
Baljeet: Yeah, look at it! (Reveals a small watermelon) It mocks me, bringing shame to my family.
Phineas: Ferb, time for a little chemistry. (Ferb walks over to an empty spot, opens his Jr. Chemistry Set and reveals a large chemistry work area)
Baljeet: Hmm. Could I borrow Ferb sometime?
(Scene cut to Candace, who is walking through the festival)
Candace: Flawless Girl booth...where is it?
P. P. Otter: Hey you, girl! Don't you ever look in the mirror and end up feeling bad about yourself?
Candace: Well...
P. P. Otter: For just five dollars, you can feel good about yourself for no time!
Candace: Oh, I don't need that. I've got Flawless Girl cosmetics to make me feel good. (Walks through the festival and sees Phineas and Ferb, who are using the chemistry set)
Phineas: ...And bada bing bada boom, you've got your miracle growth elixir.
Candace: What are you guys up to?
Phineas: Hey Candace! We're gonna help Baljeet with the Biggest Watermelon Contest.
Candace: (Pointing to the watermelon) What's that, a cantaloupe?
Baljeet: (Giving himself a facepalm) Aww!
Phineas: Not for long. (Puts a drop of the growth elixir on the watermelon, and it hardly grows larger)
Candace: (Laughs) It worked! Your miracle growth elixir has turned you into giant nerds! (Walks away)
Baljeet: I will call my family and tell them to start putting up the shame curtains.
Phineas: No way! It hasn't taken full effect yet. You'll see.
Baljeet: Not through the shame curtains, I won't.
(Scene cut to the Flawless Girl booth)
Blanca: Next!
Candace: You're Blanca Dishon! I'm Candace. I'm here to become your next Flawless Girl.
Blanca: Stand over by that sign, please. (Candace walks over to the sign and is too short) Hmm. Aren't you a little short to be the next Flawless Girl?
Candace: Uh...
Blanca: Yes. Yes you are.
Candace: But I'm five-foot-eight!
Blanca: (Sigh) Look, it's right in our song. "At the forefront of every trend. Never less than five-foot-ten."
Candace: I thought you were just looking for a rhyme.
Blanca: Nobody is perfect. But you can come close by buying our full line of Flawless Girl skin care products. Next!
(Scene cut to Candace while she is on the phone with Linda, walking around)
Candace: (Sobs to Mom via phone) So I can never be perfect! No matter what I do, I'll always be two inches too ugly! I need a sudden growth spurt in the next fifteen minutes.
Linda: Oh, honey, it's not bad.
Candace: (Gasp) I got it! Thanks, Mom!
Linda: Uh, you're welcome!
(Scene cut to Phineas, Ferb, and Baljeet with the chemistry set)
Baljeet: All this waiting is maddening. Maybe we should put some more growth elixir on it?
Phineas: Actually, it only works once. Putting more on it won't make it grow anymore. (Candace secretly steals the growth elixir) But be patient. It's not done yet.
Candace: (Laughs and pours the growth elixir on herself to grow two inches) Yes, it worked! I feel great! If that, I feel flawless!
(Scene cut to Flawless Girl booth)
Blanca: It's amazing! Your height is now perfect! You're now in the running to become the next Flawless Girl.
(Scene cut to Phineas, Ferb, and Baljeet)
Baljeet: So... are there Fireside Boys, too? (The watermelon starts to grow to an enormous size)
Phineas: Run! (The watermelon destroys the chemistry set)
Baljeet: I am going to need a crane! ...And a new pair of pants.
(Scene cut to Candace and Stacy)
Stacy: There you are! So what happened?
Candace: I'm in! Auditions start in two hours! (giggles)
Stacy: Hey, is there something different about you?
Candace: Who knows? Maybe I've grown out of my awkward phase. (Suddenly, her nose begins to grow)
Stacy: Looks like you're growing into another one.
Candace: Oh, no! I have to find a mirror!
(Candace zips out of the frame and goes into the House of Mirrors.)
(Scene shifts to inside the House of Mirrors. We see Candace's reflection, which seems to be normal.)
Candace: Oh thank goodness! I look totally normal. Oof!
(Stacy comes in with her reflection looking like she has a small head and a fat body.)
Stacy: Are you okay, Candace?
Candace: Wait a second. If you look like that, wha-wha-wha— (cut to reveal Candace's giant head) I've turned into Bobblehead Candace!!! (runs out) AAAAAAAAAAAAAHHH!!!
(Scene shifts to the P.P. Otter on the phone with someone)
P.P. Otter: No one will forego the five dollars to see my pathetic oddballs anymore. I gotta find some new talent fast.
(Cut to Candace who is now wagging her giant tongue and finding a place to hide)
P.P. Otter: I'm gonna have to call you back, Nana.
(Scene shifts to inside a tent where Bobblehead Candace is hiding)
Candace: Phineas and Ferb! (gasps) They did this to me they can undo it! (her body finally grows to the size of her head) AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHH!!!
(Scene shifts to outside the tent. Candace tries to sneak away. She pops her head out once to see if the coast is clear before continuing to sneak out. Cut to Phineas and Ferb.)
Candace: (offscreen) Pssst! Phineas!
Phineas: Yes, strange talking tent?
Candace: No, it's me, Candace!
Phineas: That's what happened to the growth elixir.
Candace: Please tell me you have some sort of shrinking antidote!
Phineas: No, but don't worry. We'll get right on it.
Candace: Someone's coming! (she sticks her head back into the tent)
P.P. Otter: Hello, boys. The name's P.P. Otter. I run the Oddball Show. Aren't you gonna introduce me to your friend in the tent?
Phineas: Oh, that's our sister. Our... (stifles laughter) big sister. (both Phineas and Ferb try to hold their laughter in while Candace growls) Okay, sorry. Candace, this is P.P. (Ferb giggles)
Candace: Yeah, we've met.
P.P. Otter: (taking out a business card) How would you like to make me rich beyond your wildest dreams?
Candace: Sorry, I'm kinda going through something at the moment.
P.P. Otter: Well, if ya change your mind, give me a call. (he leaves)
Candace: Okay, guys, you gotta change me back! The Flawless Girl auditions are in a couple of hours!

(Pan up to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, we faintly hear the jingle)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
Doofenshmirtz: What the?! Oh, the festival's so loud I can't even hear my own evil jingle! (turns around) Okay, guys, (cut to reveal four singers in a recording booth) take it from the top, louder!
Singer 1: A-one, two...
The Slacks: ♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incor— ♪
(The jingle is interrupted by Perry who lands on a drumset.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, what now?! (Perry dizzily emerges from behind the drums, playing a banjo off-key) A banjo-playing platypus? (Perry puts on his fedora) Perry the Banjo-Playing Platypus?!?! Uh, take five, guys. Not you, Perry the Platypus, if I can just have a word with you. (Perry walks into the engineer's station, where he immediately gets trapped) Ha ha ha! (the trapping device raises up to reveal Perry trapped in a baby carrier) It's a cute little trap, isn't it? I got the idea at my cousin Gertrude's baby shower. (Perry gives him a look) Don't judge me, men go to baby showers these days! It was fun. Presents, blindfolded diapering... I'm sorry, I-I'm off-topic, aren't I? It's this darn midsummer's festival! With the laughing and the music and the constant ringing on my bell to use the bathroom! (toilet flushes in the background) Well, I'm going to put an end it once and for all! You see, I have created a device to cover the entire midsummer's festival with the worst smell in the history of mankind! Dirty diapers! (Perry looks in terror) And, yeah, I got all that from a baby shower. How do you like me now, Perry the Judgapus?

(Scene shifts back to Giant Candace, Phineas and Ferb)
Candace: Can't you you just make up some kind of reducing cream? Or an amazing shrink ray device?
Phineas: Well, we'll see what we can do, but we're not magicians.
Candace: (sighs) I'm a freak! (cries) I'll never be a Flawless Girl! (Ferb takes out an umbrella to cover himself and his stepbrother from Candace's rain-like tears) There's only one place where a girl like me will fit in! The Oddball Show! It was nice knowing you boys! Tell Mom and Dad I love 'em! From now on, I'll be living amongst the carnies! (sobs and stomps away)
(Phineas gives Ferb a look)
P.P. Otter: Excellent! Now all we need is a big promotional stunt! Here's what I got in mind: in a reversal of a familiar theme, you can climb a skyscraper carrying me dressed in this gorilla suit. (He tears away his suit revealing a gorilla costume underneath)
Candace: Um...okay...How long have you been wearing that?
P.P. Otter: All day!

(Scene shifts back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: So, Perry the Platypus, (Candace is seen out the window climbing up) I found a way to distill the smell of dirty diapers into a concentrated liquid form, (He shows Perry a beaker filled with blue liquid.) which I will spread throughout the festival using my Smellinator!

(Pan up to the top of the building. Giant Candace is now on top holding Otter in the gorilla suit.)
(Scene shifts to the Flawless Girl tent at the festival. Blanca is holding a crown standing next to two girls.)
Blanca: And ze next Flawless Girl is... (she looks up as the two girls gasp, cut to Candace, then cut back to Blanca) Oh, zat is ze most Flawless Girl I have ever seen!
(Cut back to Candace)
Candace: Is all this really necessary?
P.P. Otter: C'mon, kid, you can't back out now!
(Blanca appears on the balcony)
Blanca: Candace, I've got some great news!
Candace: I can't hear you! Oh, hold on!
(She holds out her giant palm to invite Blanca onto it and raises both her and Otter)
Blanca: I said, "I've got some great news!!" You are ze next Flawless Girl! Wiz your height, girls will never be able to live up to the expectations you'll set! They'll be forced to buy my product forever!
P.P. Otter: Scram! She's my oddball!
Blanca: No! My Flawless Girl!
P.P. Otter: She's a freak!
Blanca: She's freakishly beautiful!
Candace: Wait a second! I just realized something! You both make money off of people's natural insecurities. (to Otter) You show people oddballs so they'll feel better about themselves, (to Blanca) and you make beauty totally unobtainable so they'll feel worse about themselves! Look at me! I'm fifty feet tall now and it's still out of reach! Well, I've had it! Making beauty the focus of my life has distracted me from the real focus of my life: Busting my brothers. Giant Candace is out, PEACE! (She jumps off the building and lands on the ground with a thud)
P.P. Otter: (seeing a beaker behind him) Growth elixir? So this is what she used!
Blanca: (grabbing it) Let me see zat!
P.P. Otter: It's my growth elixir!
Blanca: No, it's mine!
P.P. Otter: Mine!
Blanca: Mine!
(The beaker falls out of both of their hands and falls)

(Cut to Perry and Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Now watch as the smell of dirty diapers (the growth elixir lands in his hand) pollutes the very molecules that surround this building! I just snap it into place and set the range for, say, 200 yards around the building. (Perry struggles to get out of his trap) Hear that, Perry the Platypus? That is the sound of smell! Nothing can stop me now! (Some water pouring on him contradicts his statement. When the water stops, it is revealed that some aquatic agents have arrived. One of the fish untraps Perry, who kicks Doofenshmirtz onto the range selector.) Uh-oh. The whole universe? Not good.
(The Smellinator activates spreading the growth elixir throughout the whole universe. Wide shot of the Earth. Zoom out revealing the entire solar system. First the planets begins to grow. Then the Earth and the Moon grow.)

(Cut back to Danville, where giant Candace is running to bust her brothers, oblivious to the growing city under her.)
Candace: Mom! Mom!
(Scene shifts to inside the house where Linda is washing the dishes)
Candace: Look what Phineas and Ferb did to me! I'm fifty feet tall! I don't even fit in....the...house. (realizing) I'm back to normal!
Linda: "Normal" being a relative term.

(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz and Perry and one of the fish agents)
Doofenshmirtz: (sniffing) Well, doesn't smell any different. I wonder what went wrong. (Perry kicks Doofenshmitz who lands on the table carrying the dirty diaper smell beaker, which he catches) Oh, here's my stinky poo-poo stuff! I thought I put this in the Smellinator. (Perry kicks him again, throwing the formula away) NOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!
(Perry puts all the fish agents in a plastic bag and makes his escape)
♪ Agent P! ♪
(The smell surrounds the entire building)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, no! (coughs) That is.... What was I thinking?

(Scene shifts to Phineas, Ferb and Baljeet)
Phineas: So didja win the giant watermelon contest?
Baljeet: I was about to (showing the now tiny watermelon) when this happened!
Phineas: So the watermelon shrank?
Ferb: Well, either that or everything else in the universe just got bigger.
Baljeet: C'est la vie. Shame curtains are not going to hang themselves.

End Credits
(Movie DVD version only)
(Song: Flawless Girl)
♪ You know you want to be her ♪
♪ She's a Flawless Girl (Flawless Girl) ♪
♪ All the boys say when they meet her ♪
♪ She's a Flawless Girl (Flawless Girl) ♪
♪ She's at the forefront of every trend ♪
♪ Never less than 5 foot 10 ♪
♪ And if you use our products, then ♪
♪ You can be a Flawless Girl ♪
♪ A Flawless Girl ♪



(Scene opens up with a goldfish and Phineas's head is seen behind.)
Phineas: There's our new pet Goldie. I wonder if we're as cute to her as she is to us? (Pause) Yeah, yeah we are. What can we do for Goldie since she's already done so much for us?
(The boys thinks when Ferb gets an idea and pulls out a blueprint)
Phineas: A marine-life aquarium? Great idea, Ferb! Let's build a best ever of one of these and give Goldie that special home she deserves. Does that sound good to you, Perry?
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: (At Goldie) So it's unanimous. Hey, where's Candace?
(Scene cut to the kitchen)
Linda: Candace? Where are you? (Notices Candace) What are you doing?
Candace: Waiting for Jeremy to call! You see, last night, at the movies, he said was going to call soon. So I calculated that "soon" must mean first thing in the morning since "soon" can't refer to a period in excess of or equal to 24 hours, give or take a 59 minute cushion of time, on either side of the event in question. (Candace holds up a notepad of her math) See? I had it all figured out right here on this notepad. I even showed my math!
Linda: Uh...
Candace: Wait! Maybe I should have carried the one instead of dividing by Jeremy's face...
Linda: Well, I'm off to my favorite author's book signing. Try not to freak out on your brothers while I'm gone.
Candace: Mom! I don't frea—Oh my gosh! The square root of "soon" is "never"!
(Scene cut to the backyard)
Phineas: I got the filter done, how's the water coming?
Ferb: (Thumbs up)
(Scene cut to a woman in the garden watering her plants when suddenly the water stops)
Woman: Herman! Are you taking a shower?
Herman: No.
Woman: (Pause) Well, you need one!
(Scene cut to the backyard)
Phineas: There you go, Goldie! Your new home! It's huge, it's amazing... it's lonely. We need to get her some new friends.
(Scene cut to a boat out in the ocean)
Boat captain: Say, aren't you boys a little young to man a fishing vessel?
Phineas: Why, yes. Yes we are.
Boat captain: Alright then.
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?

(Scene cut to Perry leaving a elevator.)
Major Monogram: Oh, Agent P, uh, pardon the newspapers, but, uh, we have a lot of new young recruits coming through here today, and, well, they aren't, uh, trained yet. Anyway, Doofenshmirtz has recently purchased the entire Tri-State Area's supply of bratwurst. Get to the bottom of it. Oh, and, uh, watch your step on the way out.

(Scene shifts back to the backyard aquarium, where more fish are surrounding Goldie.)
Phineas: Goldie, how do you like your new friends?
(An orca eats Goldie.)
Phineas: NOOOOOOOOO!
(The orca sprays Goldie out of its blowhole, Ferb catches her and puts her back in the water.)
Phineas: That was cool enough to be in one of those trained marine animal shows. Hmm...Ferb, I know what else we're gonna do today.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry bursts down the door in fighting stance. His perspective, Doofenshmirtz is sitting in a chair, but does not move. Perry poses again, but Doofenshmirtz still does not move. Perry flops over to Doofenshmirtz and poses, then presses Doofenshmirtz's nose. Still, he does not move. Perry repeatedly presses Doofenshmirtz's nose.)
Doofenshmirtz: (singsong) Yoo-hoo! Perry the Platypus!
(Doofenshmirtz activates a remote; the fake Doofenshmirtz inflates, then explodes into a rope around Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: Say hello to the Platypus Secret Agent Arrival In Order To Foil My Evil Plot Capture-inator! Or as I like to call it: my P.S.A.A.I.O.T.F.M.E.P.C.-inator. I made it up myself. Enough chit-chat! Let me tell you my latest evil scheme. You see, back before I was evil, I was something a little less than evil. I was a bratwurst street vendor.
(Flashback of a younger Doofenshmirtz with a mobile bratwurst stand.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Quality Bratwurst ♪ (cymbal crash)
(End flashback; Doofenshmirtz is smiling. Perry gives an exhausted look.)
Doofenshmirtz: What? They have those. See? Nobody remembers them. You know why? Because of the hot dog vendors! Oh, how I hated them! They had it all! They had chrome-plated carts and endorsement deals and fancy blimps! And what did we have? Only superior workmanship, finer meats, and exotic spices.
(Flashback once again to Doofenshmirtz as a bratwurst vendor.)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) I was sure that it was just a matter of time before the public would recognize our superior quality.
Kid 1: How do you know when you're really lame?
Kid 2: When you sell bratwurst! (kids laugh)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) Then and there, I swore...
(End flashback.)
Doofenshmirtz (cont'd): (walking up to a tarp) I would get my revenge. (uncovering the tarp) Behold, the Hot-Dog-Vendor-Revenge-inator! Or my H.D.V.R.....ina...I...I have to work on my acronyms. Here's how it works. (presses a remote button lowering a screen showing a slideshow) The Revenge-inator sets off a freon blast to an unsuspecting hot dog vendor encasing their hot water boilers in a sheet of ice and rendering their hot dogs cold and soggy. (He presses the remote again ending the slideshow and raising the screen back up) And once I've taken the hot out of the dog, they'll be forced to sell my bratwursts instead! (Perry rolls his eyes.) Don't roll your eyes at me! It's a good plan! (huffs and crosses his arms) Sorry to go off on you like that, Perry the Platypus, but sometimes you just, oh, really push my buttons!
(Cut to Candace's bedroom, where she is holding her cell phone.)
Candace: Oh, I can't take anymore! I'm just gonna call him!
(Candace and Jeremy call each other at the same time. They both get a busy signal.)
(Song: When Will He Call Me?)
♪ Hoo-hoo-hoo hoo hoo-hoo ♪
♪ When will he call me? ♪
♪ When will it ring? ♪
♪ Sometimes I think my sanity is hanging by a shoe string! ♪
♪ When will he call me? ♪
♪ How long is soon? ♪
♪ Should I check my watch, my calendar, or phases of the moon? ♪
♪ And he doesn't have to call me, he can e-mail me or text me, ♪
♪ But all this hanging by the phone has really vexed me, ♪
♪ I checked my messages, you know how it affects me, ♪
♪ 'Cuz finding nothing in my inbox really wrecks me, ♪
♪ When will he call me? (Ooh waa aah aah) ♪
♪ When will he call me? ♪
♪ When will he call me? ♪
♪ Should I check my watch, my calendar or phases of the moon? ♪
Candace: (looking out the window) Hey, what's with all these kids?
(Cut to the backyard. Candace appears from behind the fence.)
Candace: That's what I thought! Phineas and Ferb! I've so got them this time! (She snaps a photo with her phone, but looks at it to see a lot of fists in the air.) I can't send that to Mom! 'Scuse me! Comin' through! One side!
Man: Hey! No cuttin' in line!
Candace: It's my backyard! I outrank you!
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Goldie's Aqueous Extravaganza.
(Candace hangs from a tree branch attempting to get a photo, but it snaps.)
Candace: Uh-oh! Yaaaahh! (She lands in the aquarium.)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, our sister, Candace!
(Candace holds onto a dolphin's nose and gets flipped around on it.)
Candace: Phineas! Ablblblblblblblblblblblblblblbl...
Phineas: That's the spirit, Candace! Everybody!
All: (wagging their tongues) Ablblblblblblblblblblblblblblbl...
Candace: MAKE THIS FISH PUT ME DOWN!!!
Phineas: It's a mammal, Candace!
(The dolphin bumps Candace into the air and she screams and lands on another dolphin's nose.)
Candace: Meap.
(The dolphin flips its tail making Candace airborne once again.)
Phineas: Way to go, Candace!
Candace: How did I get in this fish show?!?!
Phineas: Mammal.
Candace: Whatever!
Phineas: Wow! You're a natural, Candace!
Candace: AAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHH!!!
(Candace gets chased by the dolphin, which also gets chased by the orca carrying Goldie.)
Phineas: Hey, look at that! (an octopus swims by) Ferb, where did the octopus come from?
Candace: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHH!!!
(Ferb looks at his notepad and simply shrugs. Cut back to Candace where she is being twirled around and around by the orca while being held by the octopus.)
Candace: Must...take...picture! (She snaps a pic.) Send!
(Cut to the bookstore, where there is a long line. We hear the muzak version of "Gitchee Gitchee Goo" over the speakers. Pan across to the front of the line where Linda is getting a book signed. The book is You & Your High-Strung Teen.)
Linda: I've gotta tell you, I read your first book and I love it.
Bridgette Oshinomi: Do you have a high-strung teen at home?
Linda: Uh, you could say that. (her phone beeps) Ooh, this must be her.
Bridgette Oshinomi: She sent you a picture? Lemme see.
Linda: Well...okay.
Bridgette Oshinomi: How bad can it be? After all, I've been through with own— (She sees the picture of Candace freaking out) Oh. (gives the phone back to Linda) I think that you need the rest of the set. (gives two books) Uh, and why don't you take a whack at that first book again?
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz and Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: And now, Perry the Platypus, (activating his inator) it is time for revenge! Goodbye, hot dog street ven— (Perry pushes Doof to the ground.) Oh, what the?! How did you get out of my trap? (Cut to reveal a wooden Perry in the trap with a tag saying "DECOY" on it.) A decoy? That doesn't even make any sense! But, okay, I surrender, I'm a reasonable man. (reaching around) I know when it's time to (grabs a bratwurst and whacks Perry with it) fight back! Waa-ha! (Perry wipes away the grease on his fur, takes off his fedora, and produces a hot dog from out of it.) Woo-ho-ho. Your hot dog is no match for my bratwurst!
(Doof and Perry fight each other like Yoda and Count Dooku in Attack of the Clones. At one point, Doof reaches out his hand as if he's attempting to use the Force. Perry looks behind him at a lightbulb bolted to the wall and then looks back at Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: No, no, no, just kidding! I—But I made you look, didn't I? Huh? Huh?
(Cut back to the backyard, where Candace is still being flipped around like a rag doll.)
Candace: Wait a minute, is that Jeremy? What's he doing here? (Gets slapped by an orca tail.)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace, did you get my messages?
Candace: Messages? (Gets slapped by another orca tail and looks at her phone, while riding the dolphin.) Eleven messages? (Rides the dolphin, which goes through a hoop held up by Ferb.) He called me!
(The crowd goes wild.)
Jeremy: Go, Candace!
(Goldie then jumps through the hoop.)
(Cut back to the fight. We now hear lightsabre-esque sound effects coming from the bratwurst and the frankfurter. Doofenshmirtz gets swiped by Perry's hot dog and falls backwards, dropping his bratwurst. Perry points his hot dog to Doof in victory, but Doof eats it.)
Doofenshmirtz: Not so hotsy-totsy now! Are you, Perry the Platypus?
(Perry swipes his tail, which cuts through the bratwurst. A piece of it hits a button on the inator.)
Computer: Fire.
(The inator activates.)
(Cut to the backyard, where Candace is happily floating on her back.)
Candace: He called me! I can't believe he really called me!
(The dolphins and orcas jump up in a grand finale. The inator ray freezes the aquarium water, breaking the pool apart. Candace lands on the ice.)
Candace: What happened to all the fish? (slips on the ice) Aaaaaaaahhh!!! (She falls and gets caught by Jeremy.) Oh, my!
Jeremy: Wow! You were great back there!
Candace: Thanks!
Phineas: Great show, Ferb! I don't remember freezing the tank being part of the finale, but that rocked! Looks like it didn't freeze all the way through. Nice.
(Cut back to Doof and Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: Eh, so what? Big deal. So it missed it's initial target. A minor setback. (Perry puts his finger on one of the bratwursts in the pile.) No wait! You'll disrupt the pile's equilibrium! (Perry takes the bratwurst out, nothing happens.) Well, hot diggity do— (All the bratwursts fall onto Doofenshmirtz and crash through the building and go down the streets.) Curse you, Perry the Platypus!!
(Cut back to the backyard.)
Jeremy: I've been trying to call all day.
Candace: Uh... hehehehehehehehehehehe...
Jeremy: (puts her down) Do you wanna go do something?
Candace: Omigosh, yes! (She bends down, and her butt somehow causes the ice block to move, taking the stadium seats with it. Linda's station wagon parks.)
Jeremy: Really, you didn't even look at your messages?
Candace: Yeah, I know.
Jeremy: That's okay, Candace. You looked like you were pretty busy.
(Linda approaches the two.)
Candace: Mom!
Jeremy: Hi, Mrs. Flynn.
Linda: Hi, Jeremy.
Candace: You have to come to the backyard! (Pushes Linda into the backyard) Phineas and Ferb built a whole aquarium with whales and everything!
Jeremy: I'll call ya in a little while.

Candace: You'll see! (Closes eyes) Tada!!
(Dramatic impact plays)
Phineas: Hi, Mom!
(Pause, Candace stares pointing with a deadpan expression on her face)
Linda: Look, honey! I brought ya a book.
(Long pause)
Candace: Did Jeremy just say he'll call me in a little while? (gets out her phone and dials) How long is that supposed to be?!
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb up in the tree. Phineas is looking through binoculars.)
Phineas: Well, I guess Goldie and her friends are headed to the ocean.
Ferb: Well, you know what they say, if you love something, set it free.
Phineas: Yeah, we do that every day with Perry. (Perry, also up in the tree, chatters.) Oh, there you are, Perry, we were just talkin' about you.

End Credits
(The woman who was gardening her plants looks at the ice block and stadium seats rolling down the streets. Cut to Danville Harbor. The seats and the ice block land in the water. Cut to underwater. Goldie and the animals are happily swimming in the ocean. Cut back to the woman.)
Woman: Are you takin' a shower now?
Herman: (offscreen, obnoxiously) Yes.
(The woman turns on her hose and Herman is heard screaming. The woman smiles.)



(Scene opens up showing a front view of the Flynn-Fletcher House.)
Candace: As president of the Healthy Dessert Club, I declare that nothing says low-calorie, non-fat more than gelatin.
Stacy: You wouldn't have started this club because gelatin is Jeremy's favorite dessert, would you?
Candace: What? No!
(Perry chatters)
Candace: Ew! Gross! Phineas and Ferb! Your smelly rodent pet is germing up the cabinets! Where are those two?
(Phineas and Ferb appear behind Candace)
Phineas: Right here, Candace.
Candace: But how? How did you get there? How did you get where you are so fast?
Phineas: Oh, we're just putting the finishing touches on our molecular transporter. Would you like to try?
Candace: Do I look like someone who wants their moleculars transported? Now get that stinky pet out of our cabinets and go scramble your molecules somewhere else!
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry. (To Candace) Bye, Candace!
(They begin teleporting away)
Jenny: Would you guys like to try some of our gelatin?
Phineas: Okay!
(They stop teleporting)
Candace: No, wait! They'll just end up doing something weird and ruin the party!
Jenny: How is sharing gelatin with them gonna ruin the party?
Candace: (Eye twitches) Some... how?
Stacy: You want cherry or grape?
Phineas: Grape, please.
Candace: No, wait.
(Phineas and Ferb eat some of the gelatin as Candace watches on in horror)
Phineas: Thanks, guys.
Candace: Well, I guess that wasn't too weird.
(Phineas and Ferb begin bouncing the gelatin)
Phineas: It's as fun to eat as the crazy, fun things you can do with it.
Ferb: The cartilaginous fibers from the bovine patella structure, that gelatin's extracted from, gives it that fun, bouncy quality.
Candace: What did I tell you? Weird. Now, let the professional handle this before it gets out of hand. Why don't you make your own gelatin and leave us alone?
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today.
Candace: Wait! I'm not finished!
Phineas: Bye, Candace.
Candace: Stay away from me and my friends and my gelatin that I don't want ruined with your ruiny ruinness. Hm. (To Stacy and Jenny) What?

Phineas: Hey, Isabella. Thanks for letting us use your pool as the largest gelatin mold ever.
Isabella: You bet.
Phineas: Ferb, release the gelatin mix.
Baljeet: Ooh, ooh, ooh, may I add some of my favorite flavor?
Phineas: Sure, buddy.
Baljeet: (He pours in his favorite flavor) Hah-hah!
Phineas: (On megaphone) Stirring team, commence mixing operations.
Fireside Girls: Aye, aye!
(The kids go around the pool in paddles boats, mixing the gelatin)
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?
(Perry hops down a flower pot on a poolside table)
Wanda Acronym: Ah, Agent P, glad you're here. Professor Poofenplotz has replaced all the fine handbags in the Tri-State area– Good grief! Perry the Platypus, what are you doing here? Your lair is across the street. Good day to you, sir.
(Perry is sucked out a tube, and Pinky the Chihuahua replaces him)
Wanda Acronym: Ah. Agent Pinky, finally.
Major Monogram: Ah, there you are, Agent P. I hear you took a wrong tube and ended up over in Wanda's division. Well, Doofenshmirtz has sent you a video message. Take a look.
Doofenshmirtz: (On video) Oh, hello, Perry the Platypus. I'm sure you're getting this. I– I was hoping you would stop by today for some tea. See, I've got all these little tea things set out and ready and, um... Uh, please use the front entrance, Perry the Platypus, because– Uh, because, uh, all the other entrances don't work today. So bye-bye. I'll see you later today! Coming in through the front entrance.
Major Monogram: So you see, Doofenshmirtz has invited you to tea. We don't know what it could possibly mean. We think– But don't hold us to this. We think that maybe, just maybe, it could be a trap. We do, however, like to give people the benefit of the doubt, uh, so try to have fun. Monogram out.
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba doo be doo be doo ba ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba ♪
♪ Perry! ♪
Isabella: How's it lookin', Phineas?
Phineas: Looks good. And judging by my chronometer here, it should be just about time. There's only one thing to do now.
Baljeet: You mean test the resiliency of our cartilaginous collusion with vigorous application of weight and velocity?
Phineas: Exactly. Let's jump on it.
(All cheering)
Candace: And now for the themed gelatin sculpture part of our get-together. Stacy.
Stacy: I made a pair of shoes. You know, 'cause I like shoes.
Candace: Nicely done. And how about yours, Jenny?
Jenny: Well, I fashioned this dove to symbolize my desire for world peace and a true—
Candace: Yeah, yeah. Get a load of my entry. It's Jeremy's head.
Candace: Look, he's dancing. (She dance as gelatin Jeremy head wiggles)
(Cheering can be heard from outside)
Jenny: Hey, what's that?
Stacy: Sounds like fun.
Candace: What?
Stacy: That looks awesome.
Jenny: We should go over there and check it out.
Stacy: Totally.
Candace: But that's just Phineas and Ferb and their friends.
Jenny: Don't be so uptight.
Stacy: Yeah, come on.
Candace: Nah, it's okay. Go ahead.
Stacy: Well, if you're sure.
Candace: That does look kinda fun. Maybe I should... totally bust them for this.
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
Doofenshmirtz: This is nice, huh? You know, I was thinking the other day about how much better you would be as an ally. So I created this. I call it my Turn-Everything-Evil-Inator. Now, you just sit still. Okay, great. You know, after I turn you evil, we can use it to create a whole army of evil minions. Won't that be fun? Hold still. (Doofenshmirtz fires his -inator at Perry, while Perry dodges the rays) Hey. I'm beginning to think you don't want to be allies at all. I'm not trying to make it personal!
(One of the stray rays hits the giant pool of Gelatin, turning it into a gelatin monster)
Gelatin Monster: Evil!
Phineas: Who added the evil flavor?
(Everybody looks at Baljeet)
Baljeet: It's curry. It's not inherently evil. Maybe a little spicy.
(The Gelatin Monster roars)
Baljeet: Okay, I'm going home.
Candace: What the–?
(Gelatin Monster roars)
Candace: Wait till Mom sees this!
(Gelatin Monster eats Candace, the roars)
Candace: (Muffled from inside the gelatin monster) You guys are so busted!
Phineas: Well, I guess we gotta rescue Candace.
Holly: But do we fight a gelatin monster?
Phineas: We'll beat him the same way we created him: with water.
(Song: Come On, Kids!)
Well, I know what we should do today!
♪ A-come on, kids! ♪
♪ Let's squirt that gelatin monster! ♪
♪ (Yeah!)♪ 
♪ A-come on, kids! ♪
♪ Let's squirt that gelatin monster! ♪
♪ (A huh-huh-huh) ♪ 
♪ Oohoo, Oohoo ♪
♪ Squirt that gelatin monster! ♪
♪ Oohoo, Oohoo ♪
♪ Squirt that gelatin monster! ♪
♪ A-come on, kids! ♪
♪ (Yeah!) ♪ 
♪ A-come on, kids! ♪
♪ Let's a-squirt that gelatin monster! ♪
♪ Let's a-squirt that gelatin monster! ♪
♪ (Huh-huh, huh-huh-huh) ♪ 
♪ Oohoo, oohoo ♪
♪ Squirt that gelatin monster! ♪
♪ Oohoo, oohoo ♪
♪ Squirt that gelatin monster! ♪
♪ A-come on, kids! ♪
♪ Let's a-squirt that gelatin monster! ♪
♪ (Yeah!) ♪ 
♪ A-come on, kids! ♪
♪ Let's a-squirt that gelatin monster! ♪
♪ (Huh-huh, huh-huh-huh) ♪ 
♪ Come on, kids ♪
(Gelatin Monster roars)
Phineas: For Candace, our neighborhood and all the good gelatin left in the world!
♪ Let's squirt that gelatin monster! ♪
(Gelatin Monster growls)

Doofenshmirtz: Okay, okay, I missed you several times, and I probably won't hit you anytime soon. I get that. But I must have hit lots of other things, and with a push of this button, those lots of other things will come to my side. And together we will defeat you!
(Doofenshmirtz hits the button)
(Gelatin Monster growls)
Gelatin Monster: Master!
(The gelatin monster dives down the drain)
Phineas: It's working. He's melting down the drain.
Candace: I have got to reexamine my life.
Doofenshmirtz: Here they come, Perry the Platypus. Here they come, all of my minions. (He laughs) (A bar of soap and a toothbrush come to his side) I c– I– I could've sworn I hit more threatening stuff than this. Really, really pathetic.
Gelatin Monster: (Growling) Master.
(The Gelatin Monster climbs up Doofenshmirtz's building, and enters his lair)'
Doofenshmirtz: Aha, a gelatin monster. I knew there was going to be something fun. Get him! Now you can bow down before my cartilaginous creation. It's so corrupt and cantankerous and carnivorous and, uh... Uh, low in calories and ca– Ca– Cow– Couch. Hm. Ah, that's all I got.
(Gelatin Monster whimpers)
Doofenshmirtz: My Turn-Everything-Evil-Inator! My monster! No!
(Perry flings his hat at the sprinkler system, and sets it off, melting the gelatin monster, adn shorting out and destroying the Turn-Everything-Evil-Inator )
Doofenshmirtz: My Turn-Everything-Evil-Inator! My monster! No! My beautiful, fruit flavored monster! You come back here, Perry the Platy- (He slips on the bar of soap, and the toothbrush lands in his mouth)Whoa! Oof! Mm. This isn't the toothbrush I use to brush my teeth.
(In the Garcia-Sahpiro backyard)
Linda: Oh, there's everyone. Candace, I thought you were having your dessert party today? What are you doing at Isabella's?
Candace: I got two words for you, Mom. Gel-a-tin. I am sick of it! Sick of it! Totally sick of it! (Snorts)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace, I heard you were having a dessert party, so I made you this out of gelatin.
(He reveals Candace's name, made from gelatin)
Candace: Aw. Nah, I'm still sick of it.



(At the Fletcher residence in England at night)
Grandpa Reg: So kids, are you enjoying your visit to England?
Phineas: Oh, yes Grandpa. We even learned how to use real thatch.
Grandpa Reg: Well, thatch terrific! (he laughs with Phineas) That was a good one.
(Candace and Stacy groan)
Stacy: There's nothing to do.
Candace: Nothing for us to do.
Grandma Winifred: What? Why don't you read my old collection of Sherlock Holmes? I've got the whole collection right here.
Stacy: Gee. Thanks, Mrs. Fletcher.
Grandma Winifred: Dinner's at 1900. That's 7 o'clock for you Yanks.
Candace: Ah, yes. Reading. That's what they did before they invented fun.
Grandma Winifred: I heard that.
Candace: Well, it's better than nothing. (Both she and Stacy begin reading) Hmm? Mmm-hmm... Hmm...
(Sunrise of the next morning)
Lawrence: Okay, is everybody ready? We're going to take you kids to see the London Eye.
Phineas: What's that?
Lawrence: One of our largest Ferris wheels in the entire universe.
Phineas: Cool!
Lawrence: Girls, are you ready?
Candace: Wait, wait, almost finished.
Lawrence: Candace, you stayed up all night just to finish that book?
Candace: No, no. We finished the whole collection.
Grandma Winifred: Before they invented fun, indeed.
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry? Oh, there he is.
Grandpa Reg: See you later, old boy. Be good now.
(Perry opens the grandfather clock and steps in, falling into a lair, where he enjoys a cup of tea)
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba, doo be doo be doo ba ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo ba, ♪
♪ Perry! ♪
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. Doofenshmirtz is up to no good here, in the UK. And, uh, after your last mission in London, we ran into some trouble with the British Spy Union. So joining you today is Agent Double 0-0. And joining me today is the lovely Inspector Initials.
(Agent Double 0-0 drops down from the ceiling and lands in the chair, whilst Inspector Initial splits the screen with Monogram)
Inspector Initials: Double 0-0, you and Agent P will be assigned the same mission against Dr. Doofenshmirtz.
Agent Double 0-0: You realize this man is a Platypus?
Inspector Initials: They're American, Double 0-0. Just be glad it's a mammal.
Major Monogram: Ooh. Rrreow. Well, go get him, Agent P.
Agent Double 0-0: What? That's it? No files? No location? No contact? What kind of a mission is this?
Major Monogram: It was enough for the mammal.
Inspector Initials: Ooh. Rrreow.
Grandpa Reg: Alright, you lot. Have a splendid day in London. We'll be back tonight after the International Haggis Festival.
Lawrence: There's twenty-nine individual flavors!
Grandpa Reg: Cheerio.
Linda: Here are your tickets for the London Eye. You might want to get in line now, 'cause it looks pretty crowded.
(Carnival music)
Linda: We'll pick you up around 4:15. Bye, kids.
Grandma Winifred: Have fun!
All but Ferb: Bye!
Phineas: Candace, you know what? Ferb and I will meet you back here later. See ya!
Stacy: Bye, guys! (to Candace) Hey, let's go shopping!
Candace: Did you hear that? Even in England, my brothers have some scheme planned.
Stacy: How can you tell?
Candace: You don't have to be Sherlock Holmes to—Ooh! Stacy, that's it! Who did we stay up learning about? (she hakes her) Who is the total king of busting?
Stacy: Sherlock Holmes?
Candace: Yes! Maybe I can finally bust the boys once and for all if I use Holmes's method of deduction! Come on. This will be fun! You could be Dr. Watson.
(Perry and Double 0-0 sit in Perry's hover car, with Agent Double 0-0 being very cramped and setting it off balance)
Agent Double 0-0: That's it. We're taking my car.
(They drive down the streets of London in Double 0-0's car)
Agent Double 0-0: Now this is a motor car. It has pretty much everything. Radar, Subatomic Sonar, Nuclear Particle Response System, and a MP3 player. (Button beeps) Don't touch that, it's the ejector– (The seat ejects sending Double 0-0 flying out of the car, which eventually comes to a rest as Double 0-0 catches back up and retakes the driver's seat) And I suppose you think that's funny.
(Perry chatters and the car shoots off)
(Candace and Stacy walk down the street with Candace wearing a deerstalker hat and robe similar to Sherlock Holmes, and Stacy wearing a bowler hat like that of Dr. Watson)
Candace: By using Holmesian Deduction, we'll be one step ahead of the boys. We can get Mom and finally show her–
Stacy: Ooh. Shoes. (Stacy stops at a storefront)
Candace: Stacy? I need you to focus!
Stacy: Sorry, sorry. Got a little distracted there. You know, London, cool stores, shopping.
Candace: There they are! Now why are they going into an auto parts store? Alright, Watson. Here's where the deducing begins. (she gasps) They've acquired a fleet of automobiles. And they're in there buying a bunch of little air fresheners for them. Or... they're buying motor oil for their giant robot! What do you think, Stace? Stace?
Stacy: (returning with shopping bags) What?
(At the Big Ben, Perry and Agent Double 0-0 bust in and find Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? Oh, who's your little friend here? 
Agent Double 0-0: I'm Agent Double 0-0, from Her Majesty's secret service.
Doofenshmirtz: Double 0-0? I-isn't that just triple "O"?
Agent Double 0-0: No, that's not how you say it.
Doofenshmirtz: It spells "OOO", does it?
Agent Double 0-0: It's just Double 0-0.
Doofenshmirtz: He's "P" and you're "OO", so together you spell-
Agent Double 0-0: No, they're not "O"s, they're zeros. Alright?
Doofenshmirtz: I was just going to say "Oop". Looks like I struck a nerve there!
(He presses a remote and two traps spring out, holding perry around the waist, but Double 0-0 around the shins)
Agent Double 0-0: Hey!
Doofenshmirtz: I must apologize, all of my traps are platypus-sized.
Agent Double 0-0: What about this then? (he motions to a large rocket engine above them)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, that. You see, as I get older, I find it's harder and harder to read my small, little wristwatch. So, I will launch Big Ben into space, and fly it all the way to the Tri-State Area. (He demonstrates on a scale model) La-la-la, here I am, la-la-la, I just woke up and want to know what time it is – Yes! I am a genius!
Agent Double 0-0: So that– That's your whole plan?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, in a nutshell, yes. What do you think?
Agent Double 0-0: Am I on one of those hidden camera shows? You realize you could just buy a bigger watch? Or maybe a wall clock?
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, but then I would have to drive to a store, and find a parking space, then you have to choose from, like - dozens of styles, I- It just seems like so much work. This will be much less complicated.
Candace: (upon entering the auto parts shop) Okay, Watson. Excuse me sir, were these boys in here earlier?
Worker: Well, them two bics were 'angin' about an' they got a bit o' the bushies an', uh, also ran back an' carted off some ol' bangers that ah didn' need. Oi! Aren' they a bit harrish for them kind o' bushies?
Candace: Stacy?
Stacy: (Flipping through a Cockney for tourists book) I'm working on it. Ah! He said "They were here, they carted away some junk from out back, and, aren't they a little young to be doing that?"
Candace: Yes. Yes they are. (Stacy and Candace enter the back lot) Aha! It's crawling with clues out here! Hmm... Look at these circular indentations in the dirt. (She sniffing) And the subtle scent of rubber in the air. By Jove, Stacy! What could it be?
Stacy: Uh, "Free Tires"? (She looks at a sign advertising "Free Tires")
Candace: Maybe, maybe... We need more clues!
(Stacy graons)
(Song: Elementary)
♪ We've got a mystery to solve ♪
♪ Clues and puzzles to resolve ♪
♪ It's elementary ♪
♪ Separating fact and fiction, gonna get me a conviction ♪
♪ Elementary ♪
♪ Oh, what is truths, and what is lies? ♪
♪ It's elementary ♪
♪ I see it with my private eyes, grab your magnifying glass ♪
♪ 'Cause deductive reasoning's a gas ♪
♪ It's elementary (Elementary, it's elementary, yeah) (Elementary, it's elementary, yeah)♪
♪ Oh, yeah, it's elementary (Elementary, it's elementary, yeah) ♪
♪ Yeah, it's elementary ♪
Candace: Stacy, I think I'm close to figuring it out.
The rocket engines under Big Ben begin to start up)
Doofenshmirtz: I'm going up to the top of the tower, I'm sure you two have a hot time together! (He laughs and exits)
Agent Double 0-0: Don't worry, Agent P. I'll have us out of these before you know it. (He activates a laser on his watch and begins cutting through the restraints)
Candace: There they are. (Phineas and Ferb get into a taxi that promptly pulls off) They dropped a notebook. The page is torn, but it says "To big race 1600 Water S." Water Street! The final clue! They're having a race at 1600 Water Street! Ooh, I gotta call Mom! (To her mom through the phone) And that's why you've gotta come down to 1600 Water Street. (She and Stacy arrive at 1600 Water Street which is nothing but an old abandoned building) Huh? I don't get it! I thought I'd figured it out.
Linda: (On the phone) Hello? Hello? Candace, are you there?
Candace: Sorry, Mom. Disregard everything I said.
Linda: Okay, sweetheart.
Grandma Winifred: Remember, no snacking. Dinner's at 1900.
Candace: Oh, okay. See you later. (To Stacy) What if 1600 isn't a place, but a time?
Stacy: I didn't get that impression.
Candace: Impression! Stacy, you're a genius. Wasn't it in one of those Holmes stories that they used pencil lead to reveal an impression on paper? Well, if my hunch is right... (She takes an impression of the missing half of the page) "To do today: Big Ben race to Thames at 1600 for water slide fun"! Stacy, 1600 is 4 o'clock which is right now! Let's go!
Agent Double 0-0: (firing his laser) Just a few more minutes.
(Perry notices a remote, grabs a brick and throws it at the remote button, releasing them both)
Agent Double 0-0: Ow! Oh, there you go. Good thing I had the watch laser. Now Doofenshmirtz took the stairs, but if we work our way up the inner mechanism of the clock, he'll never see us coming.
(Agent Double 0-0 starts climbing up through the clock gears)
(Perry watchs briefly, then calls the elevator)
(Candace and Stacy arrive at Big Ben which has a giant water slide surrounding it)
Stacy: Wow! Candace, you're amazing! You totally figured it out!
(A kid wearing a tire rides the slide, bounces across the water and lands in a car on London Eye)
Candace: Yeah, I guess I did. Now, on to the busting.
Phineas: (Operating the water slide) Next!
(A grabber grabs a boy in a tire and takes him up the tower)
Candace: Phineas!
Phineas: Hey, guys! Do you like it?
Candace: I figured you guys were up to something. The tires, the pipes, I see what those were for, but what was with the pineapple?
Phineas: Oh, that was for Ferb. He was hungry.
Candace: (mocking) Oh, and the butter too, huh?
Phineas: No, no. He's using that for speed.
(Ferb, at the top of the slide, butters himself up. He rides down the slide, bounces off the River Thames and lands in a ferris wheel car at warp speed)
Referee: (Inside the car) It's a new world record!
Candace: Mom's gonna flip when she sees about this! (She starts dialing the phone, but the grabber takes her up the tower and she goes down the slide, screaming)
Linda: (answering the phone) Hello? (Candace tries to speak, but her speech is gibberish due to a bumpy area in the slide)
Someone with a thick cockney accent. (she turns off her phone) Wrong number.
(Candace continues to slide)
Stacy: Can I take a turn?
Phineas: Go for it. (Stacy goes up) Last customer of the day. (He goes up too)
(Candace slides off the slide and bounces into a car)
Stacy: Whoo-hoo! (slides off, lands in Candace's car)
Phineas: That's what I'm talking about! (slides off, lands in car)
Candace: Ooh! It's 4:15. Mom should be here. Mom! (bangs car glass) Look!Look up here!
Linda: (not hearing this) I hope the kids had fun today.
Doofenshmirtz: (On top of the tower) Well, It's about time!
(He presses a remote, the rocket engines fire, and Big Ben starts rumbling)
Candace: Mom, look! Mom, Mom!!!
Stacy: (seeing Big Ben about to launch, taps on Candace's shoulder) Uh...Candace?!
Candace: Not now, Stacy!
Stacy: But --
Candace: (she bangs on glass more) Mom! Mom!
(Big Ben launches)
Doofenshmirtz: (Doofenshmirtz laughs maniacally) Hey!
(Perry arrives at the top of the clock and kicks Doofenshmirtz and takes the remote) 
Doofenshmirtz: (landing on the water slide Phineas and Ferb Built) Hey, look at this! It's like a ride! (part of the slide begin coming off) Woo-hoo! Cannonball! (The entire slide breaks into pieces and land in the water. Doofenshmirtz lands on the pavement) Well, I was expecting a bigger splash...
(Perry presses a remote, and Big Ben lands back in place) 
Stacy: (Watching it all) Whoa!
Candace: Mom!
Linda: Here come the girls!
(Candace and Stacy's car lands, and Candace gets out)
Candace: Mom, you gotta– !
Linda: Oh, look at your cute outfit!
Candace: Mom, you gotta look at– (Candace motions towards Big Ben) 
Linda: Oh, Big Ben! Gorgeous!
Candace: (deadpan) But-but-but-but-but...
Winifred: Ah, here come the boys.
(Phineas and Ferb's car comes down, they come out)
Phineas: Hey, Mom, you missed all the fun.
Linda: Looks like we did. All right, let's catch a cab and head home. Come on!
Phineas: Looks like Candace and Stacy did some shopping.
Ferb: I'll never understand fashion.

End Credits
(At Big Ben, Agent Double 0-0 grasps onto its pendulum trying to reach and access ladder. This continues for several seconds until he finally comes out of the clock face)
Agent Double 0-0: Ah-ha! Well, that took longer than I thou— Wait! (He looks at watch several times and sighs) Oh, I wish I had a bigger watch.



(Scene opens up showing a Teen Preen magazine)
Stacy: "Boys are human beings too. (Camera rotates, showing Stacy holding the magazine) If you're interested in one of them, make them feel comfortable by asking him questions about himself." Okay, they lost me at the "boys/human beings" thing.
(Candace growls)
Stacy: Candace, this article specifically says not to growl psychotically. It makes boys feel uncomfortable.
Candace: Look at them down there. Planning something. Oh, I'm gonna bust them today for sure.
Stacy: That's what you say everyday.
Candace: Well, that's because they build something everyday. Seems like every time I get Mom and I'm ready to bust, their stupid invention disappears.
Stacy: Candace, looks to me like you're going about this the wrong way. Don't focus on the boys; focus on the invention. If you can find out where the stuff goes, maybe you can take your Mom there and she'd finally see the evidence.
Candace: Yeah! Stacy, you're a genius!
Stacy: Wow, go figure! Would you call my mom and tell her that?
(Scene switches to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Candace: Hey, Phineas!
Phineas: Yo.
Candace: Uh, you know how you guys, like, build stuff everyday?
Phineas: Yeah?
Candace: And you know how you make it disappear at the end of the day?
Phineas: No.
Candace: And-- What do you mean "No"?
Phineas: We don't make it disappear.
Candace: (Scoffs) Well, then where does it go?
Phineas: We don't know what happens to it, but it helps with cleanup. And Ferb here says to never look a gift horse in a mouth.
(Ferb nods)
Candace: So you're telling me you're not even a slightest bit curious as to where the thing goes?
(Ferb turns his head at Phineas)
Phineas: Yeah, I guess we're a little bit curious. Hmm... Why don't Ferb and I build something and you guys keep your eyes on it? Maybe you can find out where the thing goes.
Candace: Sounds like a plan! (At Stacy) A plan of busting! (They high-5, at Phineas) All right boys, make it big and make it obvious.
(Scene switches to a sign saying "Big and Obvious construction site". As the boys work the camera pans to Candace and Stacy)
Candace: Now remember, we can't take our eyes off of this for even a second.
Stacy: What if I need to blink?
Candace: Here! (Pulls out an aerosol can) Use this! Saline solution.
(Ferb's blow torch fizzing)
Phineas: Hey, (Opens Ferb's welding mask) where's Perry?

(Behind Candace and Stacy, Perry comes out of Candace's recliner. He tiptoes past it, and an elevator emerges from the grass. It dings, and it's lights flash randomly. Perry looks back to see if Candace and Stacy would look, then runs into the elevator, and it's door closes. The elevator lands in Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: What do you think, too much? Oh, I'm just getting into the mood. I'm going to Vegas this weekend. (Pause) Okay. (Takes a sheet) Our sources tell us that Doofenshmirtz is working on an invisibility ray, and that can't be good. Get out there and put a stop to it. (Perry runs off) And may luck be with you! Lady luck, baby! Hot-cha.

(Scene switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Isabella: Hey Phineas. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: We're just building a big and obvious ride in our backyard!
Isabella: Cool! Can I ride it?
Candace: Nobody riding anything! We're just gonna watch it.
Phineas: Candace wants to see where it goes.
Isabella: Okay...
Buford: Whoa! What is that?
Candace: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's just another one of their cool rides. Just get behind us and help us watch it.
Buford: How's my schedule?
Baljeet: Well, right now you're just carrying me around like luggage.
Buford: We're in!

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc., Perry's hovercraft flies to it. Inside, Perry kicks open the door)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? You're just in time. (Pulls out a remote) Just in time to be trapped! (Presses the remote button. A crashing sound is heard. Perry looks around for the trap) Didn't Major Monogram tell you I was working on an invisible ray?
(Perry shrugs)
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, well, I made one, and now you're in an invisible cage. And so you don't get bored, I put in an invisible tin cup in there for you to play with.
(Perry picks up the cup and moves it back and forth)
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, see? Fun with sound. Behold, Perry the Platypus, (Presses the remote button) my Invis-inator! (The Invis-inator fires) And why would I need an Invisibility ray like this, you ask? Well, you know when those cute, little Fireside Girls come by to sell their-- Their cupcakes, or their-- Or their raffle tickets or whatever?
(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz watching TV)
Doofenshmirtz: And you forgot to close your shades, (Gretchen and Katie walk up to the door. Gretchen knocks the door) so they come to the front door, and they could see you! (Gretchen and Katie peek through the window) They could see you, watching TV or whatever, (Doofenshmirtz sits back) and you can't pretend that you're not home (Doofenshmirtz sinks in his chair) because they can see you! And they have those big, pleading eyes making you feel guilty, and-- (Scene switches back to Doofenshmirtz) So, I'm just gonna shoot them with a ray so I don't have to look at them.

(Scene switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard. Camera pans to everyone, including the Fireside Girls looking at the ride. Candace is seen, wide-eyed, looking at the invention. Ginger's eyes are red, veiny, and she rubs them)
Candace: Hey! No shuteye, girly.
(Song: Watchin' and Waitin')
(Clock ticking)
♪ We're Watchin' and we're Waitin' ♪
♪ On the edge of our seats, anticipatin' ♪
♪ It's looking awful permanent ♪
♪ But we know it could go away ♪
♪ We're keeping our eyes peeled, keeping 'em glued to the spot ♪
♪ 'Cause one moment it's there but then the next maybe not ♪
♪ Don't know if it's magic or some weird cosmic plot ♪
♪ So we're watchin' and we're waitin' ♪
♪ We're starin' and we're glarin' 'til our corneas burn ♪
♪ We hope it will stay for the rest of the day 'til our mama returns ♪
♪ So don't even think about blinking or it just might go away ♪
♪ So we're Watchin' and Waitin' (X2) ♪
♪ Yeah, we're Watchin' and Waitin' ♪
♪ We're watchin'... ♪
(Clock ticking)

Doofenshmirtz: You see, Perry the Platypus, the entire Tri-State Area-- (Scratching) Hey, what-- What are you doing? Is that an invisible file? You've forced my hand! I have no choice (Presses the button) but to open the trap door, (The door opens) and releases the invisible tiger! (Turns around) Hmm... Uh, are you feeling any biting or scratching in there, because--
(Camera switches to Perry. Doofenshmirtz is heard being mauled by the tiger)
Doofenshmirtz: (Is seen with his coat scratched, carrying a whip and chair) Back, you tiger! Ow! Where-- Where are you? So I can snap my whip at you! (Snaps the whip twice) Get in there! Get back, get back! (Drops the whip and presses the button) In there! (The door closes) I attribute that to poor planning. (Throws away the chair) If I had the tiger door inside your cage, you would have been-- (Gets hit by Perry swinging on a rope. Doofenshmirtz rolls into the Invis-inator's ray) Now, Perry the Platypus, you can never be sure where the final strike will come from. (Perry turns around) Ah, I'm an imperceptible enigma. I move in silence-- (Perry kicks him) Ow! Oh you followed the sound of my voice, maybe I should stop talk-- (Perry punches and kicks him) Ow, ow, ow! Quit it! (He knocks down a chair and rolls into the Invis-inator's ray, causing him to become visible again) Interesting! If you're already invisible, it turns you visible again-- (Perry throws the chair at him) Ow! Oh well that came out of nowhere.

(Scene switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Stacy: So, how long is this gonna take?
Candace: I mean it usually disappears as soon as the kids are done playing on it-- (Gets an idea) Oop! Wait a minute, that's it! (At the gang) You guys gotta play on it! Go! Go have fun! Go!
Phineas: Okay.
Buford: (Is seen sitting on Baljeet) Eh, my schedule's flexible.
Baljeet: I used to be.
(Song: Quirky Worky Song)
♪ Suitty-up, Booty-up, Billa-be-do-do-da (X3) ♪
♪ Do-da be-de-da, da-da, da-da-da ♪
(The ride does random things. Phineas laughs, then Isabella. Then to Ferb, then Buford)
Buford: (Laughs) WOO-HOO-HOO! OH BUFORD LOVES THIS!
Candace: That's it, laugh. Laugh while you still can.

(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.. Perry is still fighting Doofenshmirtz. Doofenshmirtz punches him, causing Perry to slide to the Invis-inator's ray, but half of his body is visible)
Doofenshmirtz: (Laughs) Look at you! You're just a bottom! (Perry punches him) Oh, it's on now! (Charges at Perry, who throws him over. Doofenshmirtz's body is now half invisible) Oop! Look at me! I'm just a top!
(Perry jumps at him. They go through the Invis-inator's ray, and now Perry's top is visible, bottom invisible, as Doofenshmirtz's bottom is visible, top invisible. They run off, and Doofenshmirtz jumps over and punches Perry. He throws him at the Invis-inator's ray, and now Perry's bottom is visible, top invisible. Perry aims the Invis-inator at Doofenshmirtz's top, which is visible. Perry's top is visible by putting is top into the Invis-inator's ray)

(Scene switches to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: Okay, fun's fun! Now everybody, back in your seats! Now if we just keep watching it...

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc., Perry hops off the Invis-inator, causing it to aim at the Flynn-Fletcher house)

(Scene switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: Any minute now... (Horn honks. Candace gasps) I can't believe it! Mom's home! (The Invis-inator's ray hits the ride) There's no way she's gonna miss the-- (Notices the ride disappeared. She screams) Phineas, what did you do?
Phineas: I don't... Th-th-- Think I did anything!
(Candace looks up)
Candace: Wait, it's Mom! It only happens when she comes home!
(Linda drives up)
Candace: Mom! Mom! Do me a favor and just back down the driveway a bit!
Linda: Uh, okay. (She backs away. The Invis-inator's ray is heard)
Candace: Any changes?
Phineas: It's back!
Candace: I can't believed that worked! (At Linda) Okay Mom, come back! Come back! (Linda drives back. The Invis-inator's ray hits the ride, causing it to disappear)
Phineas: It's gone again!
Isabella: Candace, how are you doing that?
Candace: Back back back back back! (Shoves the car backwards. She steps around the spot) There's gotta be some kind of sensor in the driveway! (Camera switches to Linda) But where is it? (Camera switches to Candace stepping around the spot) It's gotta be here somewhere! (Ray fires)
Kids: It's back! (Candace looks back, leaning) It's gone! (Candace leans forward) It's back! (Candace leans backward) It's gone! (Candace repeatedly leans forward and backward) Back! Gone! Back! Gone!
Linda: (Looks out the window) Candace, you obviously have some issues with the driveway. I'm just gonna park in front. (Backs away to the front of the house. The ray fires, and the ride come back)
Kids: It's back!
Candace: Wait, she can see it from the front yard! (Runs to the car) Mom!
Linda: Just a sec, honey. I'm getting my stuff.
Candace: Mom, look! (The ray fires, and the ride disappears) No!
(Back at the backyard)
Phineas: Hey Candace, it's still here! It's just invisible!
Candace: What?! (Runs to the backyard) It's still here?
Stacy: Candace, check this out!
(Candace feels the ride)
Candace: Hum... (Gasps) Paint!
Linda: (With grocery bags) Candace, where are you going?
Candace: I'll be right back! (At the garage she grabs a can of paint, then runs back) Ee-ee-ee-ee...

(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.. Doofenshmirtz's control panel is seen smoking)
Doofenshmirtz: You think you've beaten me, but you haven't, 'cause I can turn the Invis-inator into a Disintegrator, with just the simple (Pushes a button. The ray prepares to fire) push of a button!
(Perry jumps. The ray fires. At the Flynn-Fletcher house. The ray hits the invisible ride. Back at Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc., Perry aims the Disintegrator at the control panel. Doofenshmirtz ducks)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, I was using that!
(Scene switches to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Linda: Hey kids!
Phineas: Hi Mom!
Linda: I got some--
Candace: (Running excitedly, with the can of paint) Coming through!
Linda: Candace, what are you doing?
Candace: You'll see! Everyone will see! (Cackles maniacally. She dumps the paint on the spot where the ride was, causing the paint to splat on the grass. Candace drops the paint can) I don't understand! I don't understand! (Tries to feel the ride) I just don't understand!
Linda: Candace, I have no idea what you're up to, but you're more that welcome to join us for cookies when you're done cleaning up. (At the kids) Come on kids!
Kids: Yeah!/Cool!/Go Mom!/Buford loves cookies!
Ferb: Well, we were all watching it, and Quantum Theory states that the mere observation of an experiment changes its outcome.
Candace: Now you tell me.



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house, and a sunrise behind it.)
(Gurgling)
Phineas: Ferb, what's that noise? (Gurgling continues) Is that your stomach?
(Ferb nods his head twice)
Phineas: Yeah, I'm hungry, too. That trendy restaurant Mom and Dad took us to last night wasn't exactly satisfying.
(Flashback)
Phineas: Dad, can I borrow your glasses? I can't see my entrée. You know, because it's so small.
Lawrence: Yes, I think we got that.
(End flashback)
Phineas: How hard is it to have a trendy restaurant that's fun to go to, and has great food? That's it. I know what we're gonna do today, Ferb.
(Stomach grumbling)
(Scene shifts to Candace's room)
Candace: (Phone rings) S'up, Stace?
Stacy: Candace, are you sitting down? I don't want you to have an aneurism.
Candace: Why would I have an aneurism?
Stacy: 'Cause someone just IM'd me that someone else heard someone else overhear that Jeremy is gonna call you and ask you out for a special evening tonight! (Both squeal) Candace, do you need medical attention?
Candace: Oh. I need attention... from the doctor of love!
Stacy: Paging Dr. Jeremy.
Candace: Doctor, I got a fever.
Stacy: (Deep voice) Well, let me take care of that, little lady.
(Both laugh)
Candace: Wow, a special evening. (Phone beeps) It's my call waiting.
(Both scream)
Linda: Honey, just calling to remind you...
(Phone beeps)
Candace: Uh, it wasn't him.
Stacy: Don't worry, he'll call.
(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Isabella: Hi, Phineas. What'cha doin'?
Phineas: Ferb and I decided to build a restaurant. Hey, you could be our hostess!
Isabella: Hmm. What'cha eatin'?
Phineas: You guys can bus tables. Baljeet can be our soda jerk.
Baljeet: I make a mean milkshake!
Phineas: Ferb will be our chef.
Buford: Hey, I can work the velvet rope. (holds it out) I never leave home without my velvet rope.
Phineas: Uh... where do you keep that?
Buford: I'll never tell.
Isabella: So, what's the name of your restaurant?
Phineas: Chez Platypus, of course! By the way, where's Perry?

(Scene shifts to Perry's lair. Monogram is on his cell phone, trying to get a reservation at a restaurant.)
Major Monogram: What? Nothing available for tonight? Oh, never mind. (To Perry) Er, sorry, Agent P. It's date night tonight with the wife, and if I don't figure out something special to do, I'm royally in the doghouse.
Carl: Rreow! Pkshh!
Major Monogram: Carl! Anyway, Agent P, sources indicate Dr. Doofenshmirtz is up to one of his evil schemes. I need you to get out there and put a stop to it. Good luck.

(Scene shifts back to Candace's room)
(Song: "Do Nothing Day" ringtone)
♪ Beautiful, kind, and gentle... ♪
Candace: (Gasps) Jeremy's dreamy pre-set ringtone! Hello? Hello?
Jeremy: Candace?
Candace/Jeremy: (In unison) This is Candace/Candace, it's Jeremy. Jeremy? Candace? (Both laugh) Okay, you go. Okay, you talk, you talk. (Both laugh)
Jeremy: Okay, so, I was wondering if you wanted to do something tonight? Just the two of us?
Candace: (Giggles, squeals) Sure. That'd be great.
Jeremy: Well, awesome! Uh, so I'll pick you up later?
Candace: Bye.
Jeremy: Okay, bye.
Candace/Jeremy: (In unison) Yes!
Candace: (Power tools buzzing) Oh, no. (Candace sticks her head out the window) Listen, you twerps. Sometimes your stuff messes with my stuff, and tonight I got some big stuff going on. So you leave your stuff out there, and leave my stuff alone, or you'll get some of this stuff! Get it?!
Phineas: So, are we pairing the chicken entrée with the soup?

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Perry the Platypus! You must have noticed how I reinforced the locks, but, you know, not the door. Well, let's just get you out of... You're... You're really trapped in here, just... Just like I planned, obviously. So let me tell you my latest scheme. I'm so tired of all these happy couples around me, romantic and laughing, mocking me with their happiness. Well, not anymore. My De Love-inator satellite will eliminate the feeling of love in the entire Tri-State Area. All I have to do is press this button. It would be so easy to press it right now. It would be so simple, but, you know, I've got a date tonight, and I like to stay optimistic. But if we don't hit it off, I'm definitely gonna ruin it for everyone else.
(Elevator dings; Door slamming on floor)

(Scene shifts to the Flynn Fletcher house.)
(Jazzy piano)
Candace: Hi.
Jeremy: Hi. Ready?
Candace: I'm, like, so looking forward to tonight. A special evening, just the two of us. So, what do you have planned? Horseback riding? I just love horseback riding. Oh, you stopped.
Jeremy: Ta-da! Your brothers have opened the trendiest restaurant in town, and this is where I'm taking you.
Candace: Oh. Uh, really? Heh. How... fun.
Jeremy: Well, i-if you prefer to do something else...
Candace: Well...
Woman: Platypus-themed restaurants are so now, so wow. It will be a miracle if we get in.
Man: Cool.
Candace: Let's definitely eat here. But no way are we waiting in this line. I practically own the place. (To other people in line) Come on! Outta my way, people! VIP coming through! (To Buford) All right, Buford, make with the rope and let us in.
Buford: Name?
Candace: It's me.
Buford: "Me" who?
Candace: I'm Candace. Candace Flynn?
Buford: You're not on the list. You should have made a reservation yesterday.
Candace: This restaurant didn't exist yesterday. I demand to be let in right now.
Buford: Good evening, sir.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, I forgot to make a reservation.
Buford: No problem, dude.
Candace: Did that guy just bribe you?
Buford: He didn't bribe me. He just caught my attention in a monetary fashion. Now, back in line.
(Inside Chez Platypus...)
Isabella: Right this way to your table, sir.
Phineas: Hey, Isabella. Have you seen Perry?
Isabella: No, not lately.
Phineas: Hmm.
Doofenshmirtz: So I noticed in your online profile that you say you like tall men. Is--? Is--? Is that true?
Doofenshmirtz's date: That's right. And you're not very tall at all.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, I-I'm 6'2". I slouch.
Doofenshmirtz's date: My last date was 6'9". Now, that's a good-looking man. But I'll be honest, I've never been able to resist a man in a lab coat.
Doofenshmirtz: (Gasps) Really? Look. Look, I'm wearing one right now.
Phineas: Hey. There you are, Perry. We've gotta put you in your place of honor.
Doofenshmirtz's date: I'm usually extremely attracted to blonds.
Doofenshmirtz: I-I see.
Doofenshmirtz's date: But there is something about your windblown style that gives me goose bumps.
Doofenshmirtz: Really? Well, I-I must say, it's quite a bit of work in the morning, you know, but apparently worth it.
Phineas: There you go, Perry. Now everyone can see you.
(Song: "Quirky Worky Song")
Phineas: Hey, Ferb. We need a chicken special for table five.
(Squeals)
Buford: Enjoy your meal.
Candace: Really. You're letting complete strangers in. I'm the owners' sister. I demand to be let in right now! I'm supposed to be having the time of my life!
Jeremy: Candace? I really don't mind waiting a bit. It's actually kinda fun just hanging out here with you.
Candace: Oh, really?
Buford: All right, next party, step this way.
Candace: Oh, come on!

Doofenshmirtz: So, how do you feel about evil?
Doofenshmirtz's date: Huh? That's a weird question.
Doofenshmirtz: Is it? I-I'm just making conversation.
Doofenshmirtz's date: But I love it. Look.
Doofenshmirtz: You have an evil tattoo. Look, look, look, just like mine.
Doofenshmirtz's date: I can't believe we have so much in common. Y-you know, I don't even put "evil" on my profile anymore because it attracts so many weirdos.
Doofenshmirtz: Don't I know it.

Candace: That's it. I'm calling Mom and making her tell the boys to let us in. (To Linda) Mom, Phineas and Ferb made an exclusive restaurant in the yard and you've got to tell them to tell Buford to let us in.
Linda: Okay, okay, honey. We're just finishing dinner. We'll be home in a minute.
Candace: Argh! (At Jeremy) Jeremy, hold our place in line. I'm going out front to wait for my Mom.
Jeremy: But Candace...

Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? Oh, looking for my remote, are you? Well, here. Take it. I don't need it anymore. I am in love!
Woman: Sven, I heard a trendy new badger restaurant just opened up the street.
Man: Cool.
People: Ooh, badger restaurant./I love badgers.
Woman: Platypus-themed restaurants are so four hours ago. Let's bail.
Man: Cool.
Boy: I haven't eaten badger in a week.
(Crowd chattering)
Ferb: Ah, the public is fickle.
TV Host: Excuse me, young man. I'd like to buy your restaurant. I envision a chain of platypus-themed restaurants as far as the Tri-State Area can see.
Phineas: Heck, dinner service is over. You can have it.

(Perry smashes the remote, which causes the satellite to fall towards Earth.)

Candace: Mom, Dad, the boys have a restaurant in the yard, and they're not letting me in. You've gotta put a stop to it! Come on!
Jeremy: Goodbye!
Phineas: Have fun with the restaurant!
Candace: Uh, guys? Ugh, whatever.
Jeremy: Excuse me, miss. Do you have a table for two?
Isabella: (Giggles) Right this way, sir.
(Piano)
Baljeet: Enjoy.
Jeremy: You know, Candace, I've had a lot of fun in your backyard, but this is the best time yet.
(Candace giggles)
Linda: Oh, look. How adorable! (To Candace) Candace, you want me to put a stop to this?
Candace: No! No, no, no! Go! Shoo! Keep moving, nothing to see here. (To Jeremy) Now, where were we?

(Song: "Happy Evil Love Song")
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Love was once a crazy dream ♪
♪ Now it's my new evil scheme ♪
Doofenshmirtz's date: ♪ And I'm as happy as can be ♪
Both: ♪ It's the age-old story how an evil boy meets an evil girl ♪
♪ We got a love strong enough to rule the whole wide world ♪
♪ We both maniacally laugh at all the same stuff ♪
♪ I found my other half ♪
♪ Yes, I got an evil half ♪
♪ (La-la-la-la) ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ When the robot armies march ♪
Doofenshmirtz's date: ♪ To the beating of our hearts ♪
♪ I'm as happy as can be ♪
(Laser blasts)
Both: ♪ It's the age-old story how an evil boy meets an evil girl ♪
♪ We got a love strong enough to rule the whole, wide world ♪
♪ We both maniacally laugh at all the same stuff ♪
♪ You can't foil a plan that's built upon evil love ♪
♪ (La-la-la-la) ♪
Doofenshmirtz's date: ♪ Ooh ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Evil love ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I have never been so happy in my entire life!
Doofenshmirtz's date: Oh—Heinz-- (Laser zaps) I feel nothing. (stomps away)
Doofenshmirtz: But—But—But—!
Doofenshmirtz's date: (offscreen) Nothing!

End credits
(Song: "Happy Evil Love Song")
Both: ♪ It's the age-old story how an evil boy meets an evil girl ♪
♪ We got a love strong enough to rule the whole, wide world ♪
♪ We both maniacally laugh at all the same stuff ♪
♪ You can't foil a plan that's built upon evil Love ♪
♪ (La-la-la-la) ♪
Doofenshmirtz's date: ♪ Ooh ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Evil love ♪



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Candace: Mom, the remote's not working!
Linda: You know, you could walk five feet and change the channel the old-fashioned way.
Candace: Oh, be for real, Mom. I'd rather watch the stupid nature show.
Linda: (walks out of the room) I'll get batteries while I'm out.
Narrator: This week on Walking with Nature, one of the world's slowest creatures; Chelonia mydas, the sea turtle.
Candace: (gets up) Five feet, huh? (sits back down) Nah, it's still not worth it.
(In the backyard, Phineas and Ferb are in the tree, just about to test their project.)
Phineas: Well, Ferb, time to make the sunniest day ever!
(Ferb pushes the button and a yellow beam from the device hits the sun.)
Phineas: I guess it's already as sunny as it's gonna get. (He and Ferb climbs down the tree.) Wow, it's not even lunchtime and we're already done with today's project. Think about it, Ferb.
(Ferb accidentally knocks an egg off its nest.)
Phineas: That means we have the whole rest of the day...
(The egg slides down the tree trunk, which hits a sleeping Perry from behind.)
Phineas: ...to do another project.
(Perry wakes up then looks at the egg.)
Phineas: It's like having two days in one! (slides down the tree trunk) Can't ask for better than that.
(Ferb also slides down the tree trunk.)
Phineas: Hey, Perry, do you have any cool ideas for projects?
(Perry chatters; Ferb picks up the egg.)
Phineas: That's an egg. Perry laid an egg! You know what this means, don't you? We're gonna have two Perrys! Congratulations, old boy! You're gonna be a... Hey, where's Perry?

(Scene shifts to the garage. Perry, now in agent mode, walks from behind a vacuum cleaner then flips a switch. A tube comes down the ceiling, which sucks up not only the fedora but his fur as well. Another scene shift to Perry's lair, where it reverses the process. An annoyed Perry glares at the dysfunctional tube.)
Major Monogram: How did you like our new pneumatic transporter? I used it myself this morning.
(Camera pans to Perry, who folds his arms and narrows his eyes.)
Major Monogram: What? (Camera pans back to him) Oh, who am I kidding? The new pneumatic transporter sucks. I mean, literally, sucked every piece of hair off my body. Anyhoo, Doofenshmitz has brought up the Tri-State's entire supply of krill. Krill?
Carl: (off screen) Krill is a small shrimp-like creature that plays an important role in the diet of the humpback whale.
Major Monogram: (scoffs) ..Krill.

(Scene shifts back to the backyard.)
Phineas: You know, Ferb, Perry's egg is getting kind of cold.
(Ferb places a small blanket on top of the egg.)
Phineas: (shakes his head) No, I don't think that's gonna cut it. This calls for desperate measures. (Ferb takes the egg) We need the ultimate, best-ever egg hatcher. Ferb, I know what else we're gonna do today.
(Scene shifts to the living room. Candace returns to the couch with a bowl of popcorn.)
Candace: Five feet for popcorn, fine! (sits on the couch) Five feet to change a channel? I don't think so!
Announcer: This turtle is seeing the world for the first time.
Candace: Hey, this little fella is kind of cute.
Announcer: Here's one that's found himself in the unforgiving position of being stuck on his back. Watch as he instinctively turns to his stomach.
Candace: Whoa! Cool!
Announcer: But the sea turtles' struggles are just beginning. Without the protection of their mother, they face many predators. As you can see, they make easy prey even though the safety of the ocean is a mere five feet away.
Candace: (gulps)
(In the backyard...)
Phineas: All right, Ferb, let's get our nurture on!
(beeping)
Phineas: Easy does it! There! Activating temperature control.
(Phineas presses a button and a small heater comes out from the left panel.)
Phineas: Initiating platypus lullaby loop cycle.
(Another button is pushed, a mic with an extension cord appears, and the aforesaid loop cycle starts playing.)
Phineas: Nothing says "mother's love" like a giant, robotic platypus butt.
(Back in the living room, where Candace is still watching the sea turtle documentary)
Announcer: Unbeknownst to the delicate infant turtle, it's caught the eye of a sea hawk, and he's looking for a meal.
(thudding)
(Candace gasps, covers her eyes, then a second later looks sadly at the TV screen)
Announcer: Sadly, the sea hawk wins this battle. Unlike humans, sea turtles don't have a mother to protect them through these crucial moments of infancy.
(Chattering)
Candace: What's that?
(She pulls up the blind and notices the boys' new project.)
(Whirring; Candace screams)
Phineas: (while Candace runs into the backyard) Hey, Candace, Perry laid an egg!
Candace: (picks up the egg) It's okay, little guy. Candace is here to protect you! (at the boys) What are you doing to this precious gift of life?
Phineas: After Perry left his egg unattended, we decided it would be best if we watched over it for him. Given the rudimentary needs of the average egg, we calculated the heat transfer due to elemental exposure, plus the positive developing life responses to familiar and expected sound, and factored the obvious visual surroundings. The result was the Plat-a-Droid, but since we were pressed for time, we only built the platy-posterior.
Candace: (after a pause) That's so wrong in so many ways, I don't even know where to start! An egg is like a little baby. It needs a living, breathing mother. It needs... Hold on one second.
(Candace runs into the house, then closes the back door. After another pause, she kicks it open with a foot.)
Candace: (now wearing her "mom" suit) Okay, let's do this thing for real!
♪ Doofenshmirtz holding a bucket! ♪
(Doofenshmirtz, on his hovercraft, dumps the bucket of krill into the water. A few seconds later, Perry, using his jetpack, lands on it.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus! You're just in time for my backstory. You see, it all started a lifetime ago.
(Flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: (voice over) I was young and in love with a beautiful girl. She taught me how to see the beauty of life, and I taught her how to hold a petty grudge. She was very interested in whales, for some reason. In retrospect, it was probably more of an unhealthy obsession, but to win her heart, I created the Whale Translator-inator! I rented the best oceanographic vessel that I could afford, and we headed out. But when I turned the Translator-inator on...
(Whales squealing)
Whale: (via the Translator-inator) ..What a loser that guy up there is! She should dump that pink chimp and go out with a real mammal like me.
Doofenshmirtz: (voice over) She left me for that trash-talking 35-ton pile of blubber. And broke my fragile, 10-ounce utterly-too-human heart.
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: Unfortunately, my Translator-inator only worked in one direction. So I was not able to tell the whales what I thought of them. Until today. Watch this. (mimics whale cry) See, I taught myself whale song. I just told him he's fat, and he has barnacle breath.
(Whale squeals)
Doofenshmirtz: Come on, come on, who's diabolical?
(Perry gives an annoyed face)
(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Candace: Okay, first things first. Dismantle that thingamajig of... of weirdness. Sometimes, I swear, I'm the only normal one in this family. (pause) Like I said. Weirdness. Now, let's get serious. See what I'm wearing here? Serious. This egg's not gonna hatch itself. We need to build a nursery.
Phineas: We have this cool blueprint for an incubator!
Candace: Too antiseptic. Think warm and loving, not cold and clinical! Hugs and kisses, not hard and mechanical!
(Song: Technology vs. Nature)
Danny Jacob: ♪ Motherhood's for life ♪
♪ It's not something in which you dabble ♪
♪ For machine's not built to last ♪
♪ Their love is only techno-babble ♪
♪ Mother knows what's necessary ♪
♪ 'Cause she always pays attention ♪
♪ That's why they say necessity's the mother of invention ♪
♪ Now I got you on the run ♪
♪ Technology, zero ♪
♪ Mother Nature, one! ♪
♪ When a child cries out in the night ♪
♪ It's rarely for the washing machine ♪
♪ Science can't improve upon a mother's heart ♪
♪ But given time, it could trick out a spleen! ♪
♪ So if you think that you could build a better mother, let it go, ♪
♪ 'Cause nature already nailed it 60 million years ago, ♪
♪ You see, before we'd even begun: ♪
♪ Game over! Technology lost, Mother Nature won! ♪
♪ Game over! Technology lost, Mother Nature won! ♪
Candace: So how does it feel to have your platy-posterior handed to you on a plate, son?
(Scene shifts back to Doofenshmirtz, still mocking the whale, while Perry watches the entire thing.)
Doofenshmirtz: (continues imitating whale cry) (laughing) I just told him his macaroni and cheese recipe is too cheesy and not macaroni-y enough! (laughing) (imitates whale cry)
(Perry rolls his eyes in disgust then leaves the hovercraft on his jetpack.)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, wait, Perry the Platypus. Where are you... Where are you going? Wait! Wait! My evil plan isn't evil enough for you to foil? Is that it? Really? I've just insulted the macaroni and cheese recipe of a whale! What part of that is not evil?
(After a pause, Doofenshmirtz turns his hovercraft around to follow after Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, you get back here and thwart me this instant!

(In the backyard...)
Phineas: There, that just about does it. (at Candace) Candace!
Candace: (in a large-sized cradle) I'll say when it just about does it. Mmm-hmm. Hmm. Hmm. (at the egg) And how's my wugga wuggums? So cute! (at herself) Hmm. Not bad for a couple of boys.
Phineas: You're pretty good at this, Candace.
Candace: You bet I am. This is what real mothering looks like!

(Scene shifts to downtown Danville, where Perry's being followed by Doofenshmirtz.)
Doofenshmirtz: Stymie meee! Foil meee! Hey, what about the fact that I held a petty grudge against an inferior mammal all these years, huh?
(Perry glares, lowers his jetpack, and hides behind a dumpster. Doofenshmirtz flies past it on his hovercraft. Perry glances at the camera annoyingly, blinks once, then a surprised look appears on his face.)
Doofenshmirtz: Thwart me, Perry the Platypus.
(Perry quickly flies away on his jetpack.)
Doofenshmirtz: (once again following Perry) Aw, come on!

(Back in the backyard, where the egg is starting to hatch.)
Candace: (joyfully) I hope it's a girl! (at the egg) Come to Mommy, snooka wookums!
(Bird squawking whale song)
Candace: Huh? It was just a bird?
Ferb: That's not just any bird. That's a rare whale song-singing double-breasted angle hooper...
Candace: (getting pecked by the angle hooper) Ow!
Ferb: ...the natural enemy of the platypus in the wild.

(Back to Doofenshmirtz following Perry on his hovercraft...)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, okay. I have something really evil. Really, really. It's actually evil. (pause) Just kidding. Ha-ha! (mimics whale cry)
(Perry flies his jetpack to the eject button and pushes it, which then ejects Doofenshmirtz out of the hovercraft.)

(Scene shifts to the backyard; Candace is still getting pecked by the angle hooper.)
Candace: Ow! Ow!
(Doofenshmirtz, imitating a whale cry, "flies" by the Flynn-Fletcher house. The angle hooper stops pecking Candace then leaves with a squawk.)
Linda: (opening the back door) Candace, I have your batteries. (looks at Candace, surprised) Candace? What are you wearing?
Candace: It's... my mom suit.
Linda: All right. I'll try not to take that as an insult. What is the rest of this?
Phineas: Candace has us build this to show us what motherhood is like.
Linda: (doubtfully) Okay. Candace, you made them build all this?
Candace: No. That's not fair!
Linda: You know, Candace, you're gonna have to clean all this up. Mom suit. I swear. (walks off) I'm not even gonna ask.
Candace: How do you only manage to see this one? Why only mine? (walks towards the gate) Wait! Come back! This is so unfair! Wait!
Jeremy: (opening the gate) Hey, Candace. I was just stopping by to invite you... (awkward pause) Hmm. Well, nice mom suit.
Candace: (at Linda) See? He gets it.

(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: (screaming; falls into a whale's blow hole)
(Pause)
Woman: Heinz?
Doofenshmirtz: Elizabeth?
(Another pause)
Elizabeth: Best decision I ever made.



(Scene opens showing Buford playing a Mario-like video game, playing similar music, with his face on the video game character, while Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, and Baljeet watch him.)
Buford: See? Isn't this the coolest game ever? It's called Jump and Duck.
Phineas: Hey, how'd you get your face in there?
Buford: Easy. I just use this camera, see? (takes picture of Phineas)
Phineas: (with spinning eyes) Cool.
Buford: (demonstrating how to add in the picture, tilting the game controller and wildly pushing buttons) And then you do this, and this, and this and this and this and this and this, and this, and this, and this, and this and this, and then this and this, and then that.
(He hands the controller to Phineas.)
Buford: Look!
(Before our eyes, the little Buford character's head shrinks and is replaced by Phineas' silly face from the picture.)
Phineas: This is awesome.
(Scene switches to outside Candace's window, then to her room.)
Candace: (on her cell phone) Stacy, you are talking to the luckiest girl in the house. Jeremy is taking me to the summer cotillion! Cotillion. It's like a dance. Yes, it's a real word. All I know is it's gonna be great. Wait, I just thought of something, two somethings actually. And one of them is pointy. Stacy, I'll call you back. It's time for a little preemptive bust.
(In the Backyard)
Phineas: So, beyond jumping and ducking, what's the actual objective of this game?
Buford: It's called Jump and Duck. Duh.
Baljeet: I can see no educational value in this game.
Buford: (at Baljeet) Duck!
(Baljeet does so, while narrowly escaping Buford's punch, that was coming towards his head)
Buford: (Laughing) Consider yourself educated.
Baljeet: I stand corrected.
Phineas: Far be it for me to cast dispersions on jumping, and or ducking, but I think you can improve this. With a little effort we could-
Candace: (Now in the backyard) Okay. What are you guys up to?
Phineas: Playing a video game.
Candace: That's it? That's all you're doing today? Huh. How normal. I guess my night's safe after all. Who would have guessed you two would get sucked into a video game? I'm going to go get ready.
Phineas: (Angelic chorus in the background) "Sucked into a video game". Brilliant! Ferb! I know what we're going to do today. Hey, where's Perry?

(In Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Good morning Agent P. I've been monitoring Doofenshmirtz's internet activity. First, we know what you're getting for Christmas. Don't ask our lips are sealed... it's a vase. Second, he's been doing a lot of research into the molecular of taffeta, satin, and most ominous of all, Velour. Ugh! (Monogram shudders, and the feed cuts out)
Background singers: ♪ Perry! ♪

(Back at the Flynn-Fletcher home)
Phineas: Introducing the all new and improved, Jump and Duck. The world's first truly immersive video game experience. Hey Ferb, throw the switch.
(Ferb does so, and in the process blows the fuse, interrupting, Candace blow drying her hair)
Candace: (in her room) Hey!
Phineas: And once your zapped into the video game by the digitizer-
Candace: Okay, what's going on? I was drying my hair.
Phineas: Sorry about the power, Candace. Ferb went to check the circuit breaker.
(Ferb flips a switch turning the power back on)
Candace: Jeremy is going to get here any...
(The digitizer turns on, zapping Candace into the video game)
Candace: (in the video game) ...minute. Hey! Where'd you guys go?
Phineas: We didn't go anywhere, but you're inside the video game.
Candace: What do you mean I'm in the... (Birds and angry fruit begin chasing Candace)
Phineas: Wow, cool. How come she got to go first?

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus, you are too late. Wait, is it eleven o'clock yet? (Pauses for a beat) Now! Now you are too late. So Perry the Platypus, tremble in fear before the most twisted, nightmarish creation the world has ever known! The ball gown-inator. (Doofenshmirtz grabs the Ball gown-inator, and fires it at Perry, leaving him in a ball gown. Perry tries to jump at Doofenshmirtz, but falls due to his ball gown. A pair of mechanical arms pick of Perry so that he is at Doofenshmirtz's level) See, Perry the Platypus? It's hard to fight when you're in a ball gown. It's portable too. Ooh, you look so elegant, like you're going to a cotillion. It's a word, it means dance. So, why would I created such a device as this?
(Flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: (Narrating) You see, back in Gimmelshtump in the depths of my childhood, my parents were expecting a brand new baby girl. My mother spent months knitting pretty dresses. Unfortunately, the baby turned out to be a boy, and because we were out of material, I was forced to wear those same dresses for an entire year. Drawing mockery and scorn from all of my manly classmates.
(Flashback ends)
Doofenshmirtz: Now with my ball gown-inator, I will be the manliest man in the Tri-State Area! You know, by comparison. Because everyone else will be wearing dress. After I shoot them with my ball gown-inator. Am, am I over explaining this? Because I have this whole musical number prepared, and... Oh, oh you're good. (at the dancers) Take five girls.

(Candace is in the video game running away from the fruit)
Candace: You guys better get me out of here. I still have to get ready.
Phineas: Well, we designed a whole bunch of different worlds you have to go through to get to the boss, but you know just, just continue screen right.
Candace: Can't you just press a button and get me there now?
Phineas: Oh, you want cheat codes. No, we don't roll like that. Just jump and Duck. (Candace gets hit by fruits) Okay not necessarily in that order. Just choose the appropriate action that corresponds to the approaching fruit.
Candace What does that even mean?
Phineas: Duck! (Candace got hit by the door) Now run! (Candace gets hit by a ramp) Duck! (Candace's head got sucked) Okay, you can try to jump here (Candace fall on a platform) Duck! Duck! Duck! (Candace falls on the stairs) Okay stop falling Candace keeps falling) stop falling (Candace keeps falling) (talking to Ferb) Sheesh. Maybe we should go help her. Don't worry Candace, we're coming!
(The fruit jumps at Candace, but she shoots them with her hair dryer, causing them to melt, and restoring her health)
Candace: Hmm, maybe they should call it Jump, Duck, and Blow (Candace then begins to run through the world, shooting everything in her path)
(Phineas and Ferb appear in the video game)
Phineas: Whoa, what happened here? Oh that's right, Candace has her hair dryer. We'll just follow the carnage.
(Song: Let's Go Digital)
♪ Analog is so five terabytes ago ♪
♪ Come inside this digital domain! ♪
♪ We can all be heroes, in a world of ones and zeros ♪
♪ We'll leave behind the boring and mundane. ♪
♪ Don't be the bug in my system ♪
♪ Or else we're gonna crash and fall! Yeah, let's go digital! ♪
♪ (Let's go digital, yeah, let's go digital!) ♪
♪ Yeah, let's go digital! ♪
♪ (Let's go digital, yeah, let's go digital!) ♪
♪ Virtual is so the only way to go, ♪
♪ Cyberspace is really quite a trip. ♪
♪ (Cyberspace is really quite a trip.) ♪
♪ When you switch your mode to raw binary code ♪
♪ We'll run amok inside a microchip. ♪
♪ (Run amok inside a microchip.) ♪
♪ Don't be the bug in my system ♪
♪ Or else we're gonna crash and fall! ♪
♪ Yeah, let's go digital! ♪
♪ (Let's go digital, yeah, let's go digital!) ♪
♪ Yeah, let's go digital! ♪
♪ (Let's go digital, yeah, let's go digital!) ♪
♪ Yeah, let's go digital! ♪
♪ (Let's go digital, yeah, let's go digital!) ♪
♪ Yeah, let's go digital! ♪
♪ (Let's go digital, yeah, let's go digital!) ♪

(At DEI, a blimp comes out from the top of the building)
Doofenshmirtz: You know, Perry the Platypus, that dress sort of suites you. If you know, you just eventuate the positive as they say... Um, I'm going to stop talking now, I'm moving into a weird-
(Perry swings his dress onto Doofenshmirtz's head, cuts the ties holding him, and swings to the other side of the blimp)
Doofenshmirtz: (Muffled by Perry's dress) Hey what the...? What going on here I got... Oh, it's on now!
(Perry yanks on the dress, sending Doofenshmirtz over the edge of the balloon, and causing him to drop the Ball Gown-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: (Hanging under the balloon) Oh great, now everyone's staring.

(Phineas and Ferb gets digitized into the castle level)
Phineas: Wow, the castle. Nice art direction, Ferb. I guess Candace already made it to the boss level. (The boss, designed after Buford appears behind them) Sweet! Come on.
(They run away, narrowly avoiding being crushed by the boss)
Phineas: I forgot that we made Buford the boss. It's a little disturbing having him trying to obliterate us, but it made him so happy.
(Buford the boss catches up with them, and grabs them)
Candace: Hey ugly! Drop the twerps you freak. (The Boss does so, and walks toward Candace) Nobody picks on my brothers but- (The bosses knocks Candace over, causing her to lose the hair dryer, and diminishing her health)
Phineas: Candace look out!
(Candace grabs the health bar and hits the boss with it, causing it to stumble backward)
Phineas: Alright Candace, way to--
(The giant, continues to stumble backward, and crushes Phineas and Ferb, then falls off the floating island)
Candace:Phineas! Ferb! Phineas! Ferb! (The two brothers dissolve) NOOOO!!!!   
(Phineas and Ferb re-digitize behind Candace)
Phineas: Hey Candace, what's the matter?
Candace: You guys are okay?
Phineas: Well yeah, we have, like four lives left.
Candace: Wait. You guys let me believe you were really dead? If we ever get out of here you're going to be so... Hey, what's going on?
(The whole gang begins to de-pixelate appearing back into the real world)
Phineas: Awesome, we're out. So you must have beat the boss.
Candace: Yeah, it was a piece of cake.
Phineas: Cool, how'd you get him the second time?
Candace: What do you mean, "second time"?
Phineas: You know how after you defeat him the first time, he comes back, and this time he's twice as strong? What'd you do then?
Candace: Um...
(Behind them the Buford-Boss appears)
Phineas: The last level's in the real world. Run!
Buford: No guys, he looks like a nice guy.
(The boss punches Buford with his fist; when the boss walks off, Buford has been driven into the ground; having only his head above the ground)
Buford: Okay, maybe not.
Baljeet: (Mockingly) Oh, now I see the educational value.
Buford: (Glaring) You know, eventually I'm getting out of here!

(Doofenshmirtz continues to be pulled by the balloon, until he reaches a higher part on a roof, causing him to flip into the balloon)
Doofenshmirtz: Hehe, exactly as planned.
(Perry and Doofenshmirtz begin to battle for control of the Ball Gown-inator)

(In the backyard, Phineas, Ferb, and Candace are cornered by the boss)
Isabella: (From behind the boss) Hey you!
Phineas: Isabella! No!
Isabella: Leave my friends alone!
(The video game boss approaches Isabella)
Phineas: NOOOO!
Isabella: (Takes out a camera) Smile.
(The camera causes the boss to be sucked into the camera, as a picture)
Phineas: Wow, Isabella, that was great.
Isabella: You know what they say, the bigger they are the harder they de-pixelate.

(Doofenshmirtz and Perry continue fighting over the Ball Gown-inator, causing it to fire, giving Doofenshmirtz a dress)
Doofenshmirtz: Sea-Foam-Green? I'm actually more of an Autumn.
(Doofenshmirtz launches at Perry, which makes the Ball Gown-inator fire into the distance)

(In the backyard)
Jeremy: (In the distance) Candace.
Candace: Oh no! Jeremy's here. How am I going to get ready in three seconds?
(The ray from the Ball Gown-inator hits Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella)
Ferb: Apparently, do what we did.

(Doofenshmirtz and Perry continue to battle for the -inator, but door pulls off the end of it, effectively breaking it.)
Doofenshmirtz:No!   
(Perry takes out a pin, and pops the balloon, the jumps off, floating down safely by using his dress as a parachute)
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you Perry the Platypus!

(Back in the backyard)
Phineas: I don't remember changing. Is this part of the gam-
(Perry drops down, dress-free into the boys' back yard)
Phineas: Oh, there you are Perry.
Candace: Well what am I going to do!?
(The dress that Perry was wearing, floats down, and dresses Candace)
Candace: Huh?
Jeremy: Wow, you look beautiful. ... I guess you all look beautiful.
Phineas: Thanks, we think it's part of the game.
Jeremy: ...Okay. Shall we go, Candace?
Candace: Uh...yes.
Jeremy: Why do they call it a cotillion anyway?
Candace: Oh, don't get me started.

End credits
(Doofenshmirtz's balloon flies into a building, sending him falling downward, straight into the summer cotillion)
Cotillion Crowner: ...And the queen of the summer cotillion is...
(Doofenshmirtz straightens up, and get the crown placed on his head)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh I am honored. And at the same time humiliated, so thank you and curse you.



Part I
Narrator: The Chronicles of Meap. Starring Lorenzo Lamas as Meap. Episode 38, "More Than Meaps the Eye".
(Scene cuts down to Phineas holding a baseball launcher)
Phineas: It's the bottom of the ninth inning, bases are loaded. It all comes down to this final pitch from Ferb the curve Fletcher. And the wind up.
(Ferb pitches with a baseball launcher, and manipulates the ball's path)
Phineas: And it's a striiiyiiiiyiiike! And the crowd goes wild! (Cheers)
(Perry is wearing a baseball cap and a foam finger, looking as bored as he usually does.)
Phineas: Yeah, it looked way outside, but then it was right in the zone. There's a lesson, baseball fans: never judge a book by its cover.
(Candace, looking at a row of books, is apparently doing just that)
Candace: Boring, dull, stupid, lame, heavy-handed and derivative.
Linda: Oh, thank you for those insightful reviews of books you haven't read.
Candace: Mom, that's why books have covers; to judge them. I mean, why did you choose these books from the library?
Linda: They looked interesting.
Candace: So...
Linda: Point taken. Okay honey, I'm off to help Dad at the antique store. Oh, hey, here's a package for you.
Candace: My Bango-Ru!
Linda: Your what?
Candace: My Bango-Ru. They're these adorable Japanese characters that are so in right now. Like in a kitschy way. The lead guitarist for The Bettys has one painted on her guitar. Stacy and I designed our own dolls online.
Linda: Well, assuming none of that is teenage code for something I should be worried about as a parent, I'm off.
Candace: Bye Mom. I got to call Stacy!
Stacy: Bango-Ru!!!!
Candace: Bango-Ru!!!
Stacy: I just got my little bunny-bear! It's a cross between a bunny and a bear! You get it? It's the most precious thing.
Candace: I just got mine too. He's a cross between a cow and a frog. I'm calling him "Señor Frowwg". He's gonna be the cutest thing, you're just going to...
(Candace pauses, seeing her doll)
Stacy: Candace? What's going on?
Candace: I just discovered why cows and frogs don't date.
Stacy: Well, We'll still have fun at the Bango-Ru Convention today.
Candace: (Sighs) Yeah, I guess.
(Phineas and Ferb are still playing with their baseball launchers in the backyard.)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb, let's see what this bad boy can do. Go long! Pop fly!. (Phineas launches the ball into the sky) Cool! (The baseball hits a spacecraft, which starts falling toward Earth) Oh, here it comes! (Phineas sees the spacecraft) Hey, Ferb I know what we're going to do today. Run for our lives! (The spaceship crashes in their backyard) Whoa, I think we may have just stopped and/or started an alien invasion. I hope he's not too angry, or hungry.
(The space ship opens revealing the alien inside...)
Alien: Meap!
Phineas: Wow, that is cute. Hey, are you okay? We're really sorry about your ship.
Alien: Meap!
Phineas: What's your name?
Alien: Meap!
Phineas: Hi Meap! I'm Phineas and this is Ferb.
Meap: Meap!
(Meap pulls out a picture of another alien)
Phineas: Whatcha got there? Hey, this must be his father. Don't worry, Meap. We'll fix your ship, and you'll be with your dad in no time.
Candace: Hey Ferb, I know what we're going to do today, Let's get ourselves totally busted by crashing our stupid toy in the backyard.
Phineas: Oh, hi Candace. It isn't a toy. It's a real live alien spaceship!
Candace: Oh good! Because this isn't a cell phone. It's an inter-galactic little brother buster-izer. Which I'll use on you if you don't clean up this mess. What's with the spaceship anyway? Haven't you guys, you know, been there, done that?
Phineas: We weren't planning on going into space. But if we did, I'm sure there's still a ton of cool stuff left to do.
Candace: Yeah, well I'm all done with outer space. Never again! I'm going to stick with Earth, where I'm the one in charge of busting people who do things they're not supposed to do.
(Meap walks from behind the spaceship up to Candace)
Candace: Huh? Oh, that is the most adorable thing I've ever seen in my entire life! You guys made a Bango-Ru doll?
Phineas: That's Meap.
Meap: Meap!
Candace: He talks?
Phineas: Well, more than Ferb, but "Meap" is pretty much the only thing he says.
Candace: Well you and your little Bango-robot better not show up at the convention and make me look bad. (She turns around and steps on a baseball launcher, launching a ball into somebody's window) ...That's strike one.
Phineas: Okay Ferb, let's fix us an alien spaceship.
Meap: Meap!
Phineas: Where do you want to start? Hey Ferb, have you seen Perry?

(Perry puts on his fedora and starts to run off, the quickly takes it off when he sees Meap)
Meap: Meap!
(Perry chatters)
Meap: Meap!
(Perry chatters)
Meap: Meap!
(Meap walks off, and Perry puts back on his fedora)
(Perry enters his lair through a chute)
(Major Monograms arms are white, and he seems to be making more gestures than normal)
Major Monogram: Good morning Agent P! I wonder what exciting mission we have for you today. (starts itching his nose) Excuse me, my nose is really itchy. Doofenshmirtz has purchased a lot of carpet, he must be up to something bad. Because he's a bad, bad person... He's this bad. (Holds up his arms to show how bad Doofenshmirtz is. He starts to laugh) I can't do this. Carl was doing my arms. See? (Turns around to show Agent P) Oh, too funny, anyway, stop Doofenshmirtz with the carpet thing.

(Phineas and Ferb are in the backyard working on Meap's ship)
Phineas: It seems to run on a quantum front loading system. Can the wew system support that? (Ferb gives Phineas a "thumbs up") Hang on I'll bring you down.
(Ferb is shown to be strapped to a table being controlled by Phineas's glove)
Isabella: Hi guys! What'cha doin?
Phineas: Oh, hi Isabella. come over here and we'll show you. (Phineas realizes Ferb is still attached to the contraption) Oh, oops, sorry Ferb. We're fixing up this spaceship that belongs to our new friend Meap. Meap, he's the most adorable thing in the world.
Isabella: Really? Are you sure there's nothing, or no one that's more adorable?
Phineas: No, not a chance. (Isabella frowns dejectedly) Here, see for yourself... Meap? Meap?
(Stacy rides up on her bike and meets Candace)
Stacy: Bango-ru!!!
Candace:(Dejectedly) Bango-ru.
Stacy: (Notices Meap, and mistakes it for Candace's Bango-ru) Oh, Candace! Look at it! It's so cute, I could die!
Candace: What? Oh no...
Meap: Meap!
Stacy: And it makes little noises. How did you do that?
Candace: Oh well, Phineas and Ferb, you know?
Stacy: Oh, they tricked it out for you, cool. Come on, lets go to the convention. (She rides off)
Candace: Right behind you. Hmm. Your reign of terror has come to an end Señor Frowwg. (Tosses him into a trash can and then rides off. Meap sees Señor Frowwg and shoots a rainbow death ray from his mouth, defacing Señor Frowwg)
Phineas: Okay. I jury-rigged Ferb's old GPS device, to create a cute tracker. It locks on to the cutest thing in the area, so it should lead us right to Meap. Let's see if we can get a signal. (The cute tracker beeps) Got something!
Isabella: Oh, that's probably me. Sorry.
Phineas: No, it's three miles in that direction. Ferb, why don't you stay here and finish the ship? (Ferb salutes Phineas, and knocks himself in the head with a wrench) Isabella, want to come with me and help me find Meap?
Isabella: (Sarcastically) Sure, I still haven't gotten my "You wouldn't know cute if it bit your legs off" accomplishment patch.
Phineas: Cool! Let's go.
(Isabella growls)

(The entire Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc. building is covered with carpet)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil is carpeted! ♪
(Perry crawls through Doofenshmirtz's carpet and blasts a hole it in)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus, just in time for your little lesson in static electricity! (A mechanical hand rubs Perry against the carpet, causing him to poof out, then flicks Perry onto a wall, trapping him) Looks like I rubbed you the wrong way, Puffy the Fuzzypus. You might ask; Why the carpet? What is he doing? What is going on? Why is he listing questions I might ask him? Well, I believe the answers are best expressed in back story form.
(Scene fades into sepia-tone)
Doofenshmirtz: When I was a boy, the smell of pork emanating from me was so bad because of well, (Back in Doofenshmirtz's lair) well the reason's unimportant, it was part of a different emotionally scaring back story. I'm not getting into... regardless the smell of pork was so bad (Flashback) that no one would come near me. So one day the carnival came to town and I needed money because of, (Back in his lair) well another back story that, basically my parents disowned me, I was being raised by ocelots. (Flashback #2) The point is, I had to get a job at the carnival, but the only work was at the dunking booth, and not as the guy who got dunked, I was what they threw to dunk him, which is again a whole other back story. Okay, long back story short, I got a balloon at the carnival, I drew a face on him, I sprayed him with special "Life-Long-Lasting" spray I created, and I named him Balloony. He became my best friend in the whole world, yadda yadda yadda. Then one tragic day, when I was protecting our garden as a lawn gnome, whatever you remember that back story. Balloony started floating away. I tried to reach out and grab him, but...
Mr. Doofenshmirtz: (from inside) Bewege dich nicht! (Don't move!)
Doofenshmirtz: And I never saw Balloony again. (Flashback ends) He's still out there, somewhere. Not to put to fine a point on it, but I put that Long Lasting spray on him. So he's still out around. And I plan to bring him to me! Balloons, you see, are attracted to static electricity, so I created this. Behold the Static Electro-Amplif-Inator! Keep beholding, keep beholding, beholding, and we're still beholding, and scene.

Isabella: ♪ La-la-la-la-la-laa-la-la-la ♪
Phineas: I keep getting some kind of cute interference...
Isabella: It's me! I'm endangering the mission, I shouldn't've come!
Phineas: No. Now it's cleared up. I wonder how Ferb is doing.
(Ferb in the backyard putting Meap's ship back together)
(Song: "Quirky Worky Song")
(Man) ♪ Suitty-up, Bootty-up, Billa-be-do-do-da, ♪ (x3)
♪ Do-da be-de-da, da-da, da-da-da ♪
(Repeat verse over and over, approx. 6 times)
(Man) ♪ Bom-bicka, Bom-bicka, Bom-bicka-bicka-bicka ♪
♪ Bom-bicka, Bom-bicka, Bom-bicka-bicka-bicka ♪
(Ferb gets into Meap's spaceship, and turns it on)
Computer: Warp-Drive signature detected.
Alien: He he. I have you now.
(Song: "My Ride From Outer Space")
♪ When I light my afterburners, I'm a bullet whizzing by ♪
♪ I'm zero-to-60 light-years in the blink of an alien eye ♪
♪ I'm in a shaking, baking, staking, smoking, light speed vertical climb ♪
♪ If I was going any faster I'd be going back in time ♪
♪ Leaving nothing but a vapor trace ♪
♪ In my ride from outer space ♪
♪ Yeah... ♪
(Ferb's spaceship whips past Buford and Baljeet, tearing off all their clothes, except their underwear)
Buford: We must never speak of this again.
Baljeet: Agreed.
♪ I can bang shift through a nebula and slingshot around the sun ♪
♪ Don't look no further baby, 'cause you know I'm number one! ♪
♪ I'm chopped and flamed and bobbed and filled, you got to trick it out ♪
♪ When I burn through your dimension, you'll know what it's all about ♪
♪ I can tell, girl, from that look there on your face ♪
Ferb: You're digging my ride from outer space.
♪ You know you're digging it, baby ♪
♪ My ride from outer space (X2) ♪

(At the Bango-Ru convention. "Bango-Ru")
♪ Make a new friend, it's... Bango-Ru ♪
♪ Cuddly little bug-eyed... Bango-Ru ♪
♪ Fine, battery-powered... Bango-Ru ♪
♪ I love you, I love you, I love you Bango-Ru ♪
Stacy: This is so weird.
Candace: It's like a strange alien world.
Stacy: Ooh! Bango-Ru purses!
Candace: No way! Let me see! Let me see!
Stacy: Look how cute!
Candace: I think I saw this on the on the red carpet the other night.
(Meap looks at the picture an alien, and see someone who looks like him from behind)
Guard 1: What? Hey!
Guard 2: I got it. (Picks up Meap) Irresponsible kids.
Candace: I'm totally going to have to get some Bango-shoes to go with this!
Guard 2: Hey, is this your doll, young lady?
Candace: Yeah.
Guard 2: We found it abandoned on the floor over there.
Candace: Oh, sorry.
Guard 2: Your irresponsibility makes our job as security guards a million times harder! Someone could have stolen it. Or tripped over it.
Guard 1: That's right. Injuries, lawsuits, stolen property.
Guard 2: Even death!
Guard 1: Yes, you could have killed me.
Guard 2: Me too!
Guard 1: We're lucky to be alive.
Guard 2: Yeah, you're in big trouble.
(Meap fires his rainbow death ray at the guards, leaving them in their underwear)
Phineas: The cute signal's getting stronger.
Isabella: Phineas...?
Phineas: Yes?
Isabella: How come you think Meap is so cute. What does that even mean anyway? Cute.
Phineas: I can't define cute. I just know it when I pick it up on my cuteness meter. Although, I keep getting this weird cute interference from somewhere.
(Ferb pulls up in the spaceship)
Phineas: Whoa! Sweet you tricked it out! Isabella and I are hot on Meap's trail, let's bounce.
Candace: (Riding her bike) You can't ban me from Bango-Ru conventions for life. I ban myself! (Looks at Meap) What kind of a toy are you anyway?
Phineas: (In a thought bubble) It isn't a toy, it's a real live alien spaceship.
Candace: That's it! You're not a toy! You're a real live alien.
(The spaceship pulls up)
Phineas: Hey Candace, you found Meap.
Candace: More like he found me.
Phineas: Well, his ship's fixed, so he can get back to his family now.
(A ray of light envelopes their spacecraft)
Isabella: What's happening?
Phineas: We're caught in some kind of tractor beam! It's pulling us in! Maybe it's the space authorities. Did we do something wrong?
Ferb: Well, it occurs to me that not all of the modifications I made are technically "Street Legal".
Candace: What's going on? Wait! Come back! (At Meap) Who was that? (Meap pulls out the photo of an alien) That was your father? But why...
(Meap pulls out another photo revealing it to be a mug shot)
Meap: Meap!
Candace: Oh, it's not your father? It's a mug shot? Oh no! Phineas and Ferb have been abducted by an intergalactic criminal!
Meap: (Sadly) Meap.

Part II
Isabella: Where's he taking us?
Phineas: Look! He's headed for that small cloud!
Ferb: That's no cloud, that's a space station.
Phineas: I got a good feeling about this!
(Their craft enters the space station)
Alien: Ha, you thought you were clever disguising your ship, but I've got you now ...whoever you are.
(The ship opens up revealing Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella)
Phineas: Hey look, it's Meap's dad.
Alien: Alright, what the heck is going on here? Is this some kind of joke?
Phineas: I'm Phineas, that's Isabella, and this is Ferb.
Isabella: What's your name?
Alien: I am know by many names throughout the universe, well two mainly. Mitch, and some of the guys call me Big Mitch. Anyway, where did you get this ship?
Phineas: It's Meap's ship.
Mitch: Meap?
Phineas: Yep.
Mitch: About "yay" high, big eyes...
Phineas: The biggest!
Mitch: Kinda looks like this?
(Mitch shows them a calendar with Meap on it, vandalized with buck teeth, glasses and a speech bubble saying "I smell")
Isabella: That's Meap?
Phineas: That's Meap!
Mitch: That's my mortal enemy.
Phineas: Really? He seems like such a nice guy.
Mitch: He is; I'm not. You see, I steal rare creatures from their home worlds, and imprison them on my ship. I'm a...
Phineas: You're a zookeeper?
Mitch: No, that sorta legitimizes it. Umm...
Isabella: You're a poacher!
Mitch: Yes! I'm a poacher.
Isabella: That's wrong! These poor creatures shouldn't be lock up here.
Phineas: Yeah, they should be brought back to their homes and set free.
Mitch: Oh, really? Maybe I should lock you three up in here as well.
Phineas: Nah, that's cool. Tonight's taco night at home.
(Candace is in the backyard talking to Meap)
Candace: Hi Mom. Phineas and Ferb have been abducted by an evil alien, and I'm here with another alien, who isn't his son, and... How does that sound so far? (Meap blinks) I agree. Craaazey! What are we going to do? (Meap walks off, and returns with one of Phineas and Ferb's baseball launchers) Play catch? Well, if you think it will help. (Meap begins to pull out pictures, in an attempt to explain his plan to Candace. First with Phineas and Ferb) Phineas and Ferb. (Meap pulls out a picture of Mitch) Your father. (Meap pulls out another picture of him)  No, right not your father. A bad guy. Say where do you keep all these pictures?
Meap: Meap! (Signals for Candace to focus)
Candace: Right, stay focus. (Meap next pulls out a picture of the space station) Their in a giant spaceship. But how are we supposed to get up there and save them? (Meap grabs the baseball launcher, and shoots a baseball into the sky) Oh! I get it. Duh. You're trying to tell me something. (Pause) What?

(At D.E.I., Doofenshmirtz is getting dressed behind a screen)
Doofenshmirtz: So you know when you walk around in socks and rub them across the carpet, you get that little static shock? (He comes out from behind the screen) Behold, the new uniform of pure evil! I call it the socky-shocky-suity.

(In Mitch's spacecraft)
Phineas: Oh, cool!
Mitch: Would you three sit still? You don't get it. You're my prisoners. You should be afraid of me! (Turns his attention to his monitor, showing Meap coming toward him) Ah, like a moth to the flame.
(Candace is riding her bike towards Mitch's spacecraft, being kept aloft by the floating baseballs Phineas and Ferb made)
Candace: Whoa. I got this situation totally under control.
Mitch: (Still looking at his screen) You kids might be of some use to me after- Hey, hey, don't go in there. (Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella leaves through a door) You'll track dirt back into the corridor. Ugh, I'll deal with them later.
(Candace and Meap standing inside Mitch's spaceship)
Candace: Wow, check this place out. Well, now I know how to find Phineas and Ferb. They'll be where the cool stuff is.
(Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella ride an alien into water)
Phineas/Ferb/Isabella: WooHoo!
Candace: Ca-Ching! Okay, I'll go in and get them, you stay here. This could get dangerous.
(Candace goes in to find Phineas and Ferb, and Meap runs off into another part of the spaceship)
Candace: Wow, cool!
(Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, and Candace have fun playing with the aliens)
(Meap enters a larger atrium, and finds Mitch)
Mitch: So, we meet again.
Meap: Meap!
Mitch: I agree, it ends here. Oh, and by the way I talked to your little friends, and just so we're clear, I am not your father.

(Back at DEI)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, I'm almost done charging up to socky-shocky-suity suit. You know it's the technical side of evil I think people don't really appreciate. There! Now watch as every balloon in the entire Tri-State area is ripped from the hands of children, clowns, and ... clown-children. Hahahaha. (He connects himself with the Static Electro-Amplif-Inator ripping balloon from children, clowns, and clown-children, filling up DEI) Wow, that's a lot of balloons.
(The immense static charge pulls Doofenshmirtz and Perry onto the balloons, then the upward force of the balloons, rip the Static-Electro-Amplif-Inator out of DEI and lifts them towards the clouds)
Doofenshmirtz: You know on paper, this was the outcome too.
(Back at Mitch's spaceship, Meap is about ready to attack Mitch)
Meap: Meap!
Mitch: Oh yeah?
(Doofenshmirtz suddenly bursts through the floor of Mitch's spacecraft)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh man, what the... (Seeing Mitch) Oh, Hello.
Mitch: We're right in the middle of a showdown, if you don't mind.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Uh, I get it. It looks serious. Nemesis confrontation. One of those "it ends here" kind of things. Whoo-ee Not fun. Okay, well don't mind me, I'm just playing through as they say.
(Outside, Perry shoots his grappling hook at the spaceship and detaches himself from the balloons)
Doofenshmirtz: You're doing fine, just ignore me. I'll show myself out. (Opens a door)
Mitch: No! That's where I keep--
Doofenshmirtz: It's you. Balloony.
Mitch: Hey! That's the most unique creature in my collection. Collin. My best friend.
Doofenshmirtz: What! That's Balloony, my best friend
Mitch: No, I found Collin just floating all alone in space.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, I actually drew his face! Look, look, I signed it.
Mitch: That's a birthmark.
Doofenshmirtz: A birthmark! It's a balloon you idiot! "Collin". Come on Balloony, let's scoot.
(Balloony remains floating in place)
Doofensmirtz: Ba-Balloony?
Mitch: Ha. See? Collin is my best friend.
Doofenshmirtz: You've changed, Balloony. And I though you were actually back-story worthy. It makes me sick! Well, I don't even need you anymore. Yeah, I've got an even better best friend. He's a really good listener, he even put up with me going on about how great you were! Ha! (Perry finally climbs into the spaceship) It's clear to me now that my real best friend is Perry the Platy—Oof! (Perry knocks him out of the large hole in the bottom of the ship)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, hello? Falling to my doom here! (Perry jumps out to go help him)
(Mitch presses a button causing a cage to fall over Meap)
Mitch: All too easy.
(Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella come out from playing with the aliens)
Isabella: That was awesome.
Phineas: I knew there was still more cool stuff to do in space.
(Evil looking floating robots surround them)
Phineas: Uh oh.
Isabella: What are they?
Phineas: I don't know. (At a robot) Hi. (Robot shoots laser at Phineas) Okay?
(The robots suddenly get hit with baseballs, destroying them)
Candace: (Holding the baseball launcher) Strike three. They're out.
Phineas: Cool! What ever happened to strike two?
Candace: Uh... Where's Meap? I told him to wait right here.
Phineas: Hmm, I'm having trouble picking up his cute signal.
Isabella: Phineas, since you obviously won't figure this out on your own, I think I'm the one causing the cute interference.
Phineas: Don't be silly Isabella. I took into account your cuteness, and adjusted the cute-meter settings accordingly from the beginning. See, look what happens when I change it back to normal. (The cute-meter overloads due to an excessively strong cute signal from Isabella) Oops, so much for finding Meap.
Isabella: Do you think he's okay?
Mitch: No, no I don't.
Phineas: Hi Mitch.
Meap: Meap!
Candace: (Points the Baseball Launcher at Mitch)  Get away from him, Mitch!
(Mitch laughs evilly, and sends more robots to surround the gang)
Mitch: Foolish children, only now do you understand your grave situation.
(Candace begins to manipulate a base towards Meap's cage)
Mitch: (Makes voice high and squeaky) "Hi, Mitch!" "Look at the cool stuff, Mitch!" "Blah, blah, blah, MITCH!"
Phineas: Ha. He totally nailed you, Ferb.
Mitch: Silence. I mean seriously, seriously. You're still not getting this. You're all trapped, on my ship forever! Like animals in a cage. Get it? You lost, I won!
Candace: (After opening Meap's cage with the baseball) Go, hide.
(Meap gets out and shoots the robots with his rainbow death ray, destroying them)
Candace: Huh?
(Meap begins to do battle with Mitch)
Isabella: Whoa.
(Meap continues to fight with Mitch)
Candace: I... I don't believe it.
(Meap finishes off Mitch and ties Mitch's hands behind his back)
Mitch: Okay, okay I surrender, you can stop behaving in a way counter intuitive to how you superficially appear. We get it. Hey! Stay away from my universal mustache translator. Ow! MEAP!
Meap: Meap! (He puts on the mustache translator) Children, thank you for your help in bringing down this villainous scoundrel. You see, I am an intergalactic security agent who roams the universe, busting people who do stuff they're not supposed to do.
Candace: You're like the me of the galaxy.
Meap: Exactly. I am pleased to not only have made some true friends, but to have met a kindred spirit as well.
Candace: I thought Meap was a helpless little creature. Huh, I guess I learned to never judge a book by its cover again.
(Another alien comes into the room)
Candace: (Screams) An alien monster! Get to the ship!
Meap: Actually that's my mother-in-law, so yeah she's correct. Let's get out of here! (Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella follow)

End credits
(A large Metal object nearly crushes Phineas, Ferb, and Meap)
Mitch: Hahahahaha!
Mitch: Aren't you a little young to save the universe?
Phineas: Yes. Yes, I am.
Major Monogram: I want your hat on my desk!
(Perry throws his chair towards the screen at Major Monogram)
Doofenshmirtz: Balloony!
Mitch: Colin!
Candace: What? Jeremy's going to be there?
Narrator: The Chronicles of Meap, Episode 40.
Meap: Meap!
Narrator: Meapless in Seattle.
(The screen goes black, displaying the following text: "IN MEMORIAM... Don LaFontaine 08/26/40 - 09/01/08 One man, in a land, in a time, in a world... All his own.")
Narrator: In a world. There, I said it, happy?



(Opens showing the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Linda: (from inside) All right Candace. (Cuts to the kitchen where she picks up her purse on the counter, where Candace is sitting and dialing her phone.) I'm off to the grocery store. You're in charge.
Candace: Whoa-whoa-whoa wai-wai-wait! By "in charge", does that mean I'm in control of everything around here while you're gone?
Linda: (turning around) Yes.
Candace: Including Phineas and Ferb? I'm the complete overlord of them?
Linda: (suspiciously) Suddenly I'm a little scared. But, technically, yes.
Candace: So like, in a court of law, any—
Linda: Candace, I'll be back later. (leaves)
Candace: (deeply) Excellent! (singsong, to something offscreen) Oh, boys?
(Cut to the backyard, where Phineas, Ferb and Perry are under the tree as usual. Candace approaches them.)
Candace: Hear ye, hear ye! Mom has left me in charge, so I hereby demand that you do nothing crazy today. No building any whoosy-whatzits, or goozy-mahookoffs! In other words, don't be the world's most annoying brothers for one afternoon, okay?
Female Voice: Your brothers are annoying you, too?
(Cut to reveal the voice coming from a teenage girl with light brown curly hair peeking from behind the fence.)
Girl (cont'd): Hi, I'm Mandy. (opens the fence gate and approaches Candace) And me and my world's most annoying brothers are visiting our aunt next door for the weekend.
Candace: Oh, you're Mrs. Weaver's niece. You have annoying brothers?
Mandy: Oh, my gosh! My brothers, Thaddeus and Thor, are constantly building the most annoying contraptions on Earth! Soapbox cars with lawn mower engines...
Candace: (offscreen) Uh-huh.
Mandy: ...tire swings that launch over the roof...
Candace: (offscreen) Uh-huh!
Mandy: ...a mini shopping center for the cat!
(Cut to Candace who smiles and nods.)
Candace: Finally! Someone who relates! Listen to how annoying Phineas and Ferb are. One time...

(Two boys walk out of the fence gate, Thaddeus, a boy with curly brown hair like Mandy, a triangle-shaped head like Phineas, glasses, a green T-shirt, khakis, brown shoes and suspenders, and Thor, a boy with blond Moe Howard-style hair, a rectangle-shaped head like Ferb, a big nose, freckles, a blue T-shirt, gray pants and shoes. They approach Phineas and Ferb like they are the leaders of a street gang.)
Thaddeus: (snaps) Gum me. (Thor gives his brother a gum ball, which he chews and blows.) 'Sup, chumps? Thaddeus. Thor. Overheard you two like to build stuff. Where we come from, we're known as the best. Jealous?
Phineas: No. No, I'm not.
Thaddeus: Well, you should be. Today, we're building the most awesome fort ever. What do you think of that, suckers?! Ha! Hahahahaha!
Phineas: Cool. (waves) Good luck. (Ferb gives a thumbs up as Thaddeus and Thor exit the scene. Phineas suddenly gets a cool demeanor on his face as he snaps.) Gum me.
Ferb: Puh-lease.
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?
(Cut to Agent P zipping to a garden hose.)
(Cut to Agent P's lair. Major Monogram is already on screen but Perry is nowhere to be found.)
Major Monogram: Agent P? Agent P?
(Cut back to the garden hose, which Perry is now apparently in, but is having a difficult time going all the way down. Cut back to the lair.)
Major Monogram: Agent P? Where is he, Carl?
Carl: (offscreen) I don't know, sir. Maybe he decided to quit.
Major Monogram: Quit? Well, why would he wanna do that?
Carl: (offscreen) Well, remember his last mission? You were pretty tough on him, sir.
Major Monogram: Hmm. You're right, Carl. I can be pretty rough sometimes. (sadly) Poor Agent P. Do you think the little guy will ever forgive me? (Perry finally drops into his chair to see Monogram crying, but he then looks up happily) Oh, uh, Agent P, you're here! Ahem! (seriously) So, Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been sighted in the Danville Park. We need you to make sure no one is in any danger. (Perry salutes and leaves) There he goes. (guiltily) Jeez, Carl, just hope I wasn't too rough on him this time.
Carl: (offscreen) I don't know, sir. He looked pretty upset to me.
Major Monogram: (putting his head in his hand) I hate myself.
(Cut back to the backyard where Mandy and Candace are still conversing.)
Mandy: I dunno, Candace. In terms of obnoxiousness, I'm sure my brothers have your brothers beat.
Candace: Ha! I beg to differ. Yes, they're both obnoxious, but my brothers' stuff has a sprinkling of awesomeness...which makes it that much more annoying!
Mandy: Um, have you not been listening? Today, my brothers are building a fort and it'll probably be the most obnoxiously awesome fort ever built!
Candace: Not if my brothers are building one!
Mandy: Oh yeah?!
Candace: Yeah! It's on, sister!
(The girls storm off in their separate ways. Thaddeus and Thor peek from behind the fence.)
Thaddeus: Well, Thor, I know who we're gonna outdo today!
(Cut to the living room. Candace opens the screen door to find her brothers on the couch.)
Candace: There you are! I order you to get out there and build a fort!
Phineas: I thought you wanted us to take the day off and not annoy you.
Candace: Those kids next door are building a fort and I will be annoyed if theirs is better than yours!
Phineas: Candace, we don't do this to compete. We do it for fun.
Ferb: And for the ladies. Rrrrrow. (raises eyebrows seductively)
Candace: Well, do it cuz I say so!
(Cut to Danville Park, where a sack race is going on. Above it the banner reads:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Family Reunion ♪
(Long pan right to show the various activities taking place at the reunion, including a picnic and a kickball tournament. Pan stops on Doofenshmirtz looking upon the reunion by himself. Cut to a bush, which Perry jumps out of and approaches Doof in a fighting position.)
Doofenshmirtz: (disgruntled) Oh, hi, Perry the Platypus. Welcome to the Doofenshmirtz family reunion. They're just about to start the dreaded kickball game that my mother organizes every year. The one my brother's team always wins. You see, I'm not very coordinated with my feet. But with my hands...Hey, watch this. (Doof reaches offscreen and grabs a table with several cups on them. He does a few impressive stacking tricks with the cups.) See? I hold the cup-stacking world record. But does my mother care? No! (pushes the table offscreen) You see, Perry the Platypus, throughout my childhood, my mother's love was always inexplicably linked to kickball. You know, I think—I think this is best expressed through song. (strums a balalaika)
(Song: "Couldn't Kick My Way Into Her Heart")
Doofenshmirtz: (to the tune of "You Snuck Your Way Right Into My Heart") ♪ My mother's love was always inexplicably linked to kickball, ♪
♪ And my brother was an expert from the start ♪
♪ But I lacked finesse, so when put to the test, ♪
♪ I couldn't kick my way right into her heart... ♪
Ladies and gentlemen, Love Händel!
Danny: ♪ Oh yeah! ♪
♪ He tried playing rugby ♪
♪ And soccer and football ♪
♪ He tried kick the can and even martial arts ♪
♪ But even with this dedication... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I still got no coordination! ♪
Danny: ♪ He couldn't kick his way right into her heart. ♪
♪ Oh, yeah! ♪
Goodnight, Gimmelshtump!
(Cut back to Doof in the present)
Doofenshmirtz: How do you like that, Perry the Platypus? Love Händel, in my flashback! I know people. (Perry just gives him a look.) This year, it's going to be different! W-W-Wait right here, I'll show you! (He exits offscreen. We hear a mechanical noise, and he comes back with an electronic leg.) Behold, the Kickinator 5000! Could you help me practice, please, please? Just take the ball and go over there and then just roll it to me. Go ahead. Any time. I'm ready. (The ball rolls to Doof, but nothing happens.) Well, you—you threw it too early! (Gets the ball back) Couldn't you tell I wasn't ready? (He throws the ball back and Perry catches it) Come on, try again. Okay, do it right this time. (The Kickinator 5000 suddenly kicks Doof's chin and he lands on his bottom. The ball rolls off.) It's, uh, you know, it's a process.
(Cut to the backyard. Candace is watching her brothers start to build a fort. Isabella approaches them.)
Isabella: What'cha doin'?
Phineas: Building a fort.
(Isabella looks to the other side to see Thaddeus and Thor building their fort.)
Isabella: What are you doing?
Thaddeus: Showin' two chumps how to build a fort!
Isabella: Oh, no, he di'n't! Phineas, how can I help?
(Screen flips to sometime later with Mandy behind the fence looking through binoculars.)
Mandy: Stainless steel 18-8 woodscrews, eh? (scoffs) The choice of amateurs!
Candace: Why? What kind of screws are your brothers using?
Mandy: That's classified.
(Pan left to show a big tarp over the fort with the signs "NO PEEKEES" and "KEEP OUT" taped to it. We hear Mandy's brothers hard at work.)
Candace: Isabella! Get a tarp over that thing ASAP!
Isabella: What color?
(Cut to Thaddeus and Thor in front of the tarp.)
Thaddeus: Hey, where's Harry?
(Whip pan to reveal a rather fat and hairy-looking man in a tank-top, brown pants, and a yellow construction hat lounging on a chair, drinking some iced tea, and reading a newspaper.)
Harry: Yo! Over here!
Thaddeus: Well, he is a contractor. They don't do much.
(Cut back to the family reunion. Perry is now holding the ball on a fishing pole.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, slowly. Not so fast! I can hardly keep up with it!
(A ball hits Doof in the head followed by Perry.)
Female Voice: Heads up, Heinz!
(Doof growls)
(Screen flips to sometime later)
Doofenshmirtz: You know what? Just—Just bring the ball in front of the Kickinator. Just—Put it right th—What are you doing? I didn't say a mile away! Right here! Bring it closer. Okay. No, no! Oh. That's a little bit better. Step back and get ready to witness some real kicking. (He kicks the ball perfectly, and the ball goes into a tree. A bird falls out.) I did it! I did it! (The Kickinator kicks his chin again and he falls on his back.) I still did it!
(Cut back to a shot of both backyards with tarps over both of the forts. Mandy and Candace are pacing back and forth in their respective yards.)
Candace: Alright, guys, it's do or die time. This is the chance to really show your stuff, cuz there's no you're gonna lose to a couple of lame-os AND THEIR LOSER SISTER!!
Mandy: (offscreen) I can hear you!
Candace: I KNOW!! I SAID IT LOUD!!!! (car honks, Candace gasps) Mom! Gotta get rid of her!
(Cut to the front of the house. Linda drives up to the front door and starts to get out, but then Candace runs up to her.)
Candace: Oh, Mom, you're home, you're home! But, uh, I-I think you should go back to the grocery store.
Linda: Why?
Candace: Because I—I bet you forgot, uh, that stuff!
Linda: (looks at her list) Oh, I guess I did. (gives Candace some bags) Alright, throw these in the kitchen and I'll be right back.
(Candace runs into the house with the bags. Cut to the living room where she literally throws the bags on the floor.)
Candace: Boy, that was close.
(Cut back to the park. Doof is waiting for his turn to kick.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, I'm next!
Charlene: (on the mound) Alright, easy out! Everybody move in!
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, you're not even a Doofenshmirtz anymore!
Charlene: I kept the name!
Vanessa: (from the bleachers) You can do it, Dad! (to the person sitting next to her) He can't really do it.
(Cut back to the backyards. Mandy, Thaddeus, Thor, Candace, Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella are now joined by Stacy, Buford, Baljeet, the Fireside Girls, Jenny and practically all the kids of Danville.)
Mandy: (on a megaphone) Welcome, citizens of Danville! I give you the architectural stylings of Thaddeus and Thor!
(Thaddeus and Thor uncover the tarp revealing a classic fort with four turrets and a slide. The crowd gasps in awe.)
Isabella: That's nice.
Candace: Pfft.
Thaddeus: What you architectural illiterates see here is a split-level edifice, complete with slide and licorice dispenser. (He pushes a button and a piece of red licorice comes out.) Huh? What?
(Crowd cheers.)
Candace: (on megaphone) People, people, I'm not gonna soft pedal this. That was adequate, but I think we're ready to witness the greatest architectural feat this town has ever seen! I give you Phineas and Ferb!
(Phineas and Ferb uncover the tarp. But the crowd simply stares. Thaddeus and Mandy laugh.)
Thaddeus: Ha ha ha ha ha! You call that an architectural feat?! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha!
(Cut to reveal a simple fort with a tire swing.)
Candace: What?! (drops her megaphone) Have you lost your minds?! You've completely humiliated me in front of everyone!
Phineas: But, Candace, this—
Candace: Phineas, all summer long, you build the most amazing things and the one time I reach out to you as a sister, the one time I count on you, you give me this?
Phineas: But, Candace—
Candace: No! Just leave me alone! (runs off) Excuse me!
Phineas: Candace, wait!
(Cut back to Doof, who is waiting for the ball to come to him. Charlene rolls it to him. Close up on Doof's sweaty face. Cut to a shot of the nervous crowd. The ball finally reaches him and he kicks it right out of the park.)
Vanessa: Woah!
Mrs. Doofenshmirtz: Woah!
(Cut back to Phineas and Ferb.)
Phineas: (picking up the megaphone) Ladies and gentlemen, topping our fort is our homage to old-school construction. And now for the rest of it. Ferb?
(Ferb pushes a button on a remote. The dramatic music from "Rollercoaster" is heard while the fort raises up from the ground revealing many different building levels.)
Phineas: Tada! (the kickball hits the fort) Our modern take on a well-known classic!
(The crowd oohs and cheers. Thaddeus pops his gum onto his face. Thor just looks with his mouth open.)
(Cut back to the park where Doof approaches his goody two-shoes brother.)
Doofenshmirtz: I...I did it. I did it! Ha ha! Who's the loser now, huh?! L-O-S-E-R! Who's the loser?! You are! Let's boogie! That's right! Let's boogie!
(The ball comes back into Roger's hand, and he tags his brother.)
Roger: You're out.
Mrs. Doofenshmirtz: (running down from the bleachers) Oh, Roger, my son! (lifts her son up) You make me so proud, again!
Doofenshmirtz: But... (The Kickinator kicks Doof again) OW!
(Cut to a montage of Phineas and Ferb showing their rivals the entire fort.)
Phineas: Well, here's the foyer. All imported marble, by the way. Here's the bowling alley. Pool. Telescope. Terra cotta army room. JET ENGINE WIND TUNNEL! And scoring stage with 40-piece orchestra.
(Cut back to the backyard, where Thaddeus and Thor are still aghast while Mandy leers down in anger.)
Ferb: We don't, however, have a licorice dispenser. That was a nice touch.
Phineas: Yeah, that rocked.
(Thaddeus and Thor doesn't say anything.)
Mandy: Nice going. You broke their brains. Come on, boys. I'm taking you home.

(Cut to the front of the house where Candace is moping. Linda returns in her car.)
Linda: Hey, I got the stuff.
Candace: Thanks, Mom. At least you came through.
(Linda goes into the house. Mandy approaches Candace, followed by a still open-mouthed Thaddeus and Thor.)
Mandy: Well, Candace, as much as I hate to say this, your brothers are the best. (walks away, to her brothers) A ten-story addition with a swimming pool! Ugh! Why didn't you think of that?!
Candace: (smiles) Could it be true?!
(She runs into the house and looks outside the sliding door at the glorious fort her brothers made.)
Linda: (offscreen) Candace, have you seen this?
Candace: I'm looking at it! ...Wait, where are you?
Linda: (offscreen) In the kitchen!!
(Candace walks off. Cut to the kitchen to reveal groceries all over the floor.)
Linda (cont'd): When I said, "throw these in the kitchen," I didn't mean it literally!!!
Candace: Yeah yeah yeah. Come on, Mom! (exits)
Linda: Candace!!! I'm not going anywhere until you take care of this mess!!!
(Candace re-enters and gathers up all the groceries)
(Cut to the backyard.)
Phineas: Well, fun's fun, but there are those pesky zoning laws.
(Ferb pushes the button and the fort lowers into the ground. Cut to the kitchen where Candace puts all the groceries away very quickly and neatly.)
(Cut to Doof sitting on the ground.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ooooh, I just felt a disturbance in the cup-stacking universe. I think my record's been broken.
(Cut back to Candace and Linda. Candace is panting.)
Linda: That wasn't so hard, now, was it?
Candace: (smiles, grabbing her mother) Mom, let's go, let's go, let's go! (Cut to outside) Mom, I've been trying to tell you all summer! They make these amazing things! Look!
Linda: Candace, you're right! It is amazing!
Phineas: Hey, Mom, we've built a fort.
Linda: It's wonderful! (to Candace) Isn't it great? The boys are starting to take an interest in building things. (goes back into the house) Who wants stuff?
Phineas: (offscreen) We do!
(Candace faints)



(The scene opens with the Flynn-Fletcher house in view, then cuts to Candace's room)
Candace: Okay, Stacy. We've got about ten minutes until Jeremy's party, so you've gotta help me decide. Should I go with this swimsuit or this swimsuit? (Pulls out two swimsuits, only very slightly different colors)
Stacy: Hmm, that's tough. One on hand, if you go with the achromatic pink, it kinda says "Hi, I'm Candace, and I'm bedraggled and pallid". Trust me, you don't want that. I've been both. But, if you go with the more saturated pink, it kinda gives you that "overkill, out-to-kill, my currency is urgency" look.
Candace: I don't want that. I've been all three.
Stacy: Let your subconscious do the deciding. Go with the one you touched first.
Candace: Of course! Stacy, you're a fashion phenom.
Stacy: (Holding a sunflower hat and a fez) Which hat should I go with?
Candace: I don't think it matters.
Stacy: Yeah, you're right, I fuss too much.
(Scene shifts to the living room)
Phineas: (Eating breakfast) Nothing starts off a day better than some breakfast and some education.
TV announcer: (On television) We now return to "Wacky Millionaires Throughout History". Howard Hughes is probably best known for building the Spruce Goose, so-called because of its wooden frame. With a wingspan of 319 feet 11 inches, it still holds the record for being the largest plane ever built.
Phineas: Wow, that's an impressive record. 319 feet 11 inches is just over the length of a football field, and only one afternoon away from being broken. Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
(Ferb is shown wearing a mustache and a hair-style like Howard Hughes as he gives a thumbs up.)
(Scene then shifts to the backyard, where Phineas and Ferb are working on the plane.)
Isabella: Hey guys. Whatcha doin?
Phineas: We're makin' the biggest airplane ever!
Isabella: Cool! Coincidentally, we're going for our aeronautics patches.
Phineas: Coincidentally, we could use extra hands.
Isabella: Coincidentally, we're in.
Phineas: We're making our plane out of paper mache with newspaper!
Isabella: Why? To make sure it's newsworthy?
Phineas: (Gang laughs) And red all over!
Buford: (Gang laughs) Oh! Oh, oh, hah, and funny! (Everyone stares at him blankly) Hahahahaha! And funny! You know, 'cause, 'cause, the funnies! Hehe...
Phineas: But seriously, Howard Hughes called his plane the Spruce Goose, 'cause it was made of wood. So, we're gonna call ours "The Paper Pelican", 'cause it's made of newspaper! You know, so it will have a good circulation!
(Gang laughs)
Buford: Aw, come on!
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?

(Agent P runs over to a flower bed, pushes a flower down, and lands in his seat)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. We just discovered Doofenshmirtz has been stealing bottles from recycling bins, and nothing good can come from that. (Photo of Doofenshmirtz digging through trash cans appears on the monitor) Unless, of course, he's recycling, in which case nothing but good can come from that. Unless, he's recycling it into some hideous weapon, which is something once again no good could come from. Except, of course, for the recycling part, which I guess is still at its essence, good. Even if you're making something evil, it's still reducing the... You know, you know, perhaps we shouldn't even put these good and evil labels on things. Let's just say Doofenshmirtz is doing something neutral. So, just get out there and make sure it stays like that. (Agent P disappears)

(Montage of Phineas and Ferb building the Paper Pelican with their friends. Baljeet steals a newspaper Lawrence is reading)
Lawrence: Huh?

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (The wall flips and Agent P appears) Perry the Platypus? (phone rings) Hello? It's for you, Perry the Platypus. (He ties the phone cord around Agent P) Ha ha, prank call! Now say hello to my new evil weapon: My Evaporator-inator! It's made completely out of recycled materials. It's green... (takes off lab coat to show a recycling sign and "greevil" letters on it in green) ...and evil! I call it, "Greevil." (laughs) Backstory time! You see Perry the Platypus, when I was a young boy, my mother would never let me swim in public pools.
(Flashback)
Mrs. Doofenshmirtz: No.
(Flashback ends)
Doofenshmirtz: What? That's it! You know, not every backstory has to have some big in-depth spiel, Mr. High Expectations!  

(At Jeremy's house)
Stacy: Wait... (looks at watch) Now! We're exactly fashionably late! (people talking) We're here! This is gonna be so cool!
Candace: Hey!
Stacy: Yeah, totally hey!
Jeremy: (laughs) That is so cool.
Candace: Who's that Jeremy's talking to?
Stacy: I have no idea. I've never seen her before in my life.
Candace: I thought Jeremy invited me to this party.
Stacy: Let's not jump to conclusions yet. (both crawl under everyone and pop up from behind a chair)
Candace: What is Jeremy doing with her?
Stacy: Slow down. Remember how you thought Jeremy was with a girl and she wasn't even a she? And then you ended up on that snowboard all out of control?
Candace: Yeah, but she's obviously a real girl.
Nicolette: So then I got two west African pit vipers, and had to dive off a 300-foot cliff, and swim up through a school of piranha.
Jeremy: That's awesome, Nicolette.
Candace: Stacy, it's conclusion-jumping-to-time. Strategy session, now! (both hide in bushes) She's amazing! She's all exotic and stuff! She has on the same bathing suit as me, only it's brighter and she wears it better. And she dives off cliffs holding poisonous snakes into piranha-infested water! What am I going to do? She's like catnip for boys! She's boynip!
(At the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Phineas: Nicely done, people. Hey, Baljeet, what are the stats on the Spruce Goose again?
Baljeet: The Spruce Goose's wingspan is 319 feet 11 inches.
Phineas: And the Paper Pelican's wingspan is:
Baljeet: 320 feet even!
Phineas: Eat your heart out, Howard Hughes.
(Isabella and Baljeet as flight attendants direct everyone inside)
Both: Welcome aboard. Welcome aboard.
Buford: You'd better have some decent grub on this bucket.
Baljeet: You will be most gratified. (Buford walks in) As long as you find insignificant bags of peanuts gratifying... (slaps himself) Welcome to Wedgieville. Population: me.
(Inside the Paper Pelican)
Phineas: All right, Ferb. Let's go through our pre-flight checklist. Pilots instruments? Check. Copilot's instruments?
Ferb: Check.
Phineas: Looks like everything's a go, Ferb. Let's switch her on. Ignition! (pushes a button and the Paper Pelican starts to fly) Adjust angle of departure, check. (Paper Pelican flies off) We've reached cruising altitude. You are now free to move about the cabin.
Isabella: Would you like some peanuts?
Katie: I'll take two packs, please.
Buford: That'd better not be insignificant bags of peanuts.
Baljeet: No! Of course not, sir. (walks off; comes back with a chicken shaped out of peanuts) Here, sir. Try our deluxe peanut chicken. Our motto is: "So peanutty, you will not even taste the chicken!"
♪ So peanutty you won't even taste the chicken! ♪
Buford: I'd better not taste any chicken then, loser. (eats it) All right, you survive. For now.
Baljeet: Oh, thank you, sir.
Stacy: What are you worrying about? You're Candace Flynn!
Candace: Yeah, and she's super cool, foreign accent, snake wrestler, high-diving, natural hottie, Nicolette.
Stacy: Snake wrestler? Whatever. You've fought dinosaurs! You've been to Mars! You've traveled through time!
Candace: Oh, yeah...
Stacy: And as for diving, you been perfecting that quintuple-somersault backflip-jacknife-swandive for a week now. You're Candace Flynn!
Candace: Yeah! (She stands up) I'm Candace Flynn!
Jeremy: Candace?
Candace: Oh, he remembers my name. How nice.
Isabella and Baljeet: And now, for your in-flight entertainment; The Paper Pelican Floor Show!
(Song: Big Ginormous Airplane)
♪ When we lift off then you'll be tipped off too ♪
♪ How my heart, it soars for you! ♪
♪ Soon you'll be flying, gravity defying ♪
♪ Your dreams will all come true! In the blue! ♪
♪ Flying over cotton-candy clouds ♪
♪ Hanging from a fuselage ♪
♪ A walk on a wing is just the thing ♪
♪ For a high in the sky montage! ♪
♪ So darling, put your goggles on, ♪
♪ And up, up and away we'll fly! ♪
♪ In a big ginormous airplane ♪
♪ In a big ginormous airplane ♪
♪ In a big ginormous airplane ♪
♪ In the sky! ♪
(At Jeremy's pool party)
Candace: From atop of the diving board) There's been a lot of talk around here about diving and snakes and diving with snakes and snakes into pools filled with piranha and sulfuric acid—
Nicolette: I didn't say anything about sulfuric acid.
Candace: Leave all questions to the end of the rant? Thank you.

Doofenshmirtz: Now, say "goodbye" to splashy-pool time fun, forever! Even my power source is greevil. It's solar! Do you mind Perry the Platypus, this is real a two handed job. (He hangs the phone up on Perry. A panel in the floor rotates Perry to a plotted plant, then back to Perry, now free) Ah! Seriously- (Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz in the face, knocking his into his -inator, and firing it in an unintended direction)

Candace: Now, as I was saying before I was so lamely interrupted, I'm going to show everybody a real dare-devil dive. (The Beam from Doofenshmirtz's -inator hits the pool, evaporating it)
Candace: Oh, well that's just not fair!
(The party goers grab their skateboarding gear)
Party goer: Hey cool! It's like a half pipe!
Jeremy: All right!
(People begin skating)
Candace: No! Wait! No! No, I've been practicing diving, not skateboarding! Ugh. Everybody stop doing things that I'm not good at!
(Jeremy falls off his skateboard, launching it to the top of the pool)
Candace: Oh, this is a nightmare, come on Stacy, let's go-- (Candace steps on Jeremy's skateboard, and begins skating in the pool)
Guy: Safety first! (He puts a helmet on Candace)
Jeremy: Whoa.
Guy 2: Safety first! (He gives her elbow and knee pads)
Guy 3: Safety first! (He hands Candace a steering wheel.
Candace: A steering wheel? How is this safe? (The airbag explodes in her face)
(Candace lands on the diving board, launching her onto the roof, down a tree branch and back onto the diving board)
Jeremy: Wow, Candace...

(Doofenshmirtz and Perry the Platypus continue to fight)
Doofenshmirtz: That was your last highly-improbable judo maneuver Perry the Platypus. I will now evaporate-inate you into non existence! 
(The Paper Pelican flies by covering the sun)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh no! my-my power source! Oh, great now I can't see a thing!
(Perry runs and kicks Doofenshmirtz off the building)
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you Perry the Platypus.

Stacy: WooHoo! Yeah! Go Candace!
Candace: (As she continues to skateboard out of control) Help me! (The Paper Pelican covers up the sun, turning everything dark) I can't see!
Jeremy: Candace?
(Candace crashes into Jeremy)
(People talk among themselves about the crash)
Phineas: This is your captain speaking; We're beginning our decent.
Baljeet: Okay, everyone. Please return your seats to their upright positions, and please do not panic. As you can see the Paper Pelican is dissolving in water, because it is, after all, made of paper mache. But do not worry, because your seat cushions also function as flotation devices. Thank you for flying with us.
(A panel flips, and Perry appears next to Phineas and Ferb in a seat)
Phineas: Oh, there you are Perry.

End credits
Linda: Well everyday eventful in the emergency room. Candace, you really should be more careful.
Candace: Mom, I told you, we had our helmets on. (To Jeremy) So your cousin Nicolette was trapped on a video game level?
Jeremy: Yeah, took her a week to get through it. You didn't really think she did all those things? Candace? Do you mind? (He takes out a pen as to sign her cast)
Candace: Yes! I mean no! I mean... Sign it!.
(Jeremy sign her cast with their initials inside a heart)
Candace: Thanks. Oh, hehe.



(Scene opens showing the Flynn-Fletcher house. In Candace's room, she is calling Stacy.)
Candace: Oh, my gosh, Stacy, have you heard? "About what"? About Jeremy, he's on a TV commercial.
Stacy: Yeah, I know. I heard it from Christina, who heard it from Jenny, who heard it from Jessie who heard it from you!
Candace: Well, it's totally true. Do you know what this means?
Stacy: He's totally out of your league.
Candace: He's totally out of my league! What am I going to do?
Stacy: How should I know? I don’t know anything about celebrity relations.
Candace: That's it! If I can get on TV then Jeremy will see my star quality and we'll be on the same level again!
Stacy: How exactly are you going to do that?
Candace: I guess you're right, getting on TV might be kinda difficult.
Stacy: Yeah, I guess you forgot about that insignificant little detail.
Candace: He, he, insignificant little detail, insignificant little... Phineas and Ferb! Stacy you're a genius.
Stacy: Would you call my mom and tell her that?
(Candace runs downstairs)
Candace: Phineas and Ferb! Phineas and Ferb! Phineas and...! (She runs into the sliding door)
(Scene switches to the backyard)
Phineas: So you just switch the solenoid here with the ganglion there and...
Candace: Phineas and Ferb.
Isabella: Hey, Candace. What'cha dooooin'?
Candace: Freaking out. What are you guys doing?
Phineas: We're helping the Fireside Girls.
Isabella: Yeah, we're working on our broadcasting patches.
Phineas: We're gonna to do a game show. Baljeet and Buford are the contestants. We're even gonna broadcast it all over the Tri-State Area.
Candace: Great, I knew I came to the right place. Here's the deal: I'm the star.
Phineas: Well, all right then.
(Candace goes up on stage)
Candace: (At Baljeet and Buford) Okay, one of you get off the stage.
(Buford pushes Baljeet off the stage)
Baljeet: Whoa!
Candace: Right then. Let's get this thing started.
Phineas: (At Ferb) You know, we should give Perry a cameo. Hey, where's Perry?

(In the house, Agent P grabs a remote off the TV set and presses it several times before grabbing another remote that opens the screen off the TV. Perry goes through to his lair. Major Monogram is giving Carl a massage)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P, uh... ahem. Carl and I made a bet, and, well... I lost. (Clears throat)
(Carl puts his fingers on Monogram's mouth as if he's the one talking)
Carl: (In a falsetto voice) Dozens of delivery trucks have been...
Major Monogram: This was, uh, part of the bet.
Carl: ...showing up at Doofenshmirtz's, and no good can come from that. Get to the bottom of it. (Laughs)
(Major Monogram reappears with a clown costume on and continues giving Carl a massage)
Major Monogram: This actually wasn’t part of the bet.
(Perry exits)

(Cut to the backyard. Buford and Candace are at makeup mirrors. Baljeet is making up Buford.)
Baljeet: Do not worry your pretty little head. I have plenty of experience with this sort of thing.
Buford: (picks up Baljeet) You better, man! My face is my fortune!
Baljeet: Of course it is. (chuckles)
Candace: (on phone) Yeah, Stacy, the boys are putting on a game show! And I'm the star! This'll totally do it!
(cut to Stacy)
Stacy: Well, I hope it does do "it", because Jeremy's getting huger by the minute. I know because Megan's blog says she thinks so.
(cut back to Candace)
Candace: No way!
Phineas: And how are my favorite contestants today.
Buford: We're your only contestants, dillweed.
Phineas: I just wanted to remind everyone that the physical challenges are a little rigorous, but the rewards are inconsequential. So if things get too rough out there, you can drop out anytime you want.
Candace: Oh, don't worry about me. I can handle anything.
Buford: If the girl's in, I'm in!
Phineas: Anyway, if you need anything, (snaps fingers) don't bother to speak up.
Candace: I can't believe my own brother doesn't think I can stick it out. I'll show him. I'm star material here! MAKEUP! (Gretchen hits her with a vaudevillian oversized powderpuff) Let's do this thing!

(Cut to D.E.I.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Cut to inside. Perry opens the door only to get trapped inside a metal box)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus, how do you like my new Nemesis Catch-o-Mat? I bought it from the TV. (Perry gives him a look)
(Flashback to Doofenshmirtz by a TV with phone in hand)
Ad Man: Buy now for only $5.99 and get—
(Doofenshmirtz turns off the TV)
Doofenshmirtz: (on phone) I'll take two!
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, I see you've taken notice of all the infomercial products. I seem to have developed an addiction to them. I-It started with the Fruit Dehydrator. Here I've been eating hydrated fruit like a sucker my whole life! (doorbell rings) Excuse me, Perry the Platypus.
Delivery Guy: Sign here please.
(Doofenshmirtz signs for the package, gives the delivery guy the slip and takes the box.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, my Serve-O-Mat! See, this is what I'm talking about, I don't even know what a Serve-O-Mat is and now I own five. These infomercials are taking time away from my evil. People ask, "Doof, if you have unwanted infomercials, how do you get rid of them?" My solution is easy, simple, and it starts working the same day. With my Scorch-inator, I will target TV towers and melt, smelt, and render them into their basic components, thereby eliminating infomercials! And how much would I pay for this? Nothing, it's free! But wait! There's more! N-Th-There's not really any more, that's about it.
(Cut to the title sequence of the game show.)
(Song: "Let's Take a Quiz")
♪ If you think you're some kind of braniac, ♪
♪ A know-it-all, some kind of a whiz, ♪
♪ Got more answers than an almanac, ♪
♪ Let's Take a Quiz! ♪
♪ If you think you're extraordinary, ♪
♪ A cut above the best that there is, ♪
♪ If your cranial capacity is something scary, ♪
♪ Let's Take a Quiz! ♪
♪ Let's All Take a Quiz! ♪
(applause)
♪ Oh, yeah! ♪
(The camera does random pans on random audience members before zooming out.)
Phineas: Welcome to ♪ Let's Take a Quiz! ♪, where the rules are answer fast and answer often. Let's meet our contestants. (close up on Candace with a neutral expression on her face) She's allergic to parsnips and dairy, say hello to my sister, Candace Flynn!
Candace: (looks at the camera and then smiles) Oh, uh, (waves) hi!
(audience cheers)
Phineas: He's a bully by vocation, but has a soft spot for goldfish. Say hello to Buford van Stomm!
(audience boos, Buford flashes two peace signs)
Phineas (cont'd): I see we have no clear fan favorite tonight. All right. (zips to the podium on stage) Let's start round one of ♪ Let's Take a Quiz! ♪ This is a high-speed round we call our quizzed-off round. As usual, I start you off. Remember, just go as fast as you can, we'll keep track of the points. Here we go. Prestidigitation!
Buford: Oh oh oh oh oh! (dings bell) Bunions! (buzz!)
Phineas: Oh, I'm sorry about that. That's gonna be a five-point penalty.
Buford: Aw.
Candace: Wait a minute. Why does he lose fi—
Phineas: I'm sorry, all questions must be phrased in the form of an answer. Okay, we're back in play now, and... Passamaquody.
Buford: (dings) Nonchalant.
Phineas: Form of the word?
Buford: Eh..."chalant"? (bell dings)
Phineas: Defenestrate.
Buford: Defenestration.
Phineas: Diphthong.
Buford: Linoleum.
Phineas: Ersatz.
Buford: Pencil.
Phineas: Nice job.
(Candace's phone rings, she picks up.)
Candace: Hello?
(Cut to Stacy's living room, she is watching on TV)
Stacy: What's the matter with you?! You're just standing there!
(Cut to Candace)
Candace: I don't know what they're talkin' about!
(cut back to Stacy)
Stacy: You're losing right now and losers don't have star quality! Say something!
(Cut back to Candace)
Candace: Like what?
(Bell dings. Cut to Ferb in drag in front of a Wheel of Fortune style board where the words "LIKE WHAT" appear.)
Phineas: 45 points for Candace! (crowd cheers) Good one, Candace.
Buford: (growls and dings) Pocket lint!
Candace: (dings) Laminate!
(Cut to audience. Some members hold up signs with letters that spell "LAMINATE")
Buford: Dolomite!
Candace: Porpoise!
Buford: Tralfazz!
Candace: Tralfazz??
Buford: That's right! TRALFAZZ!!
(Pan down to Buford's podium, which now reads "TRALFAZZ!!")
Candace: Fine Tralfazz!
(Cut to Ferb in a different drag costume in front of the board where the words "FINE TRALFAZZ" appear.)
Phineas: Ooh, bonus!
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: What's the matter, Perry the Platypus? You don't like my little plan? Think about it this way: Since infomercials are almost universally hated, I will actually be doing a civic good by destroying them! Huh? You see? You like that? W— Oof! (Perry somehow gets out of the Nemesis Catch-o-Mat, and jumps on Doof. Cut to show Perry holding a device) Aha, yes, the E-Z Automatic Trap Escaper. I must've left it out where you could reach it. Well, I was able to reach this! (He reaches offscreen and retrieves a mallet-looking device) It's the Swapotron-Smash-o-Matic! (a boxing glove comes out of the mallet and punches Perry) I got it for only $99.95. (Perry gets another device) Ah, the Labco Pocket Tennis Ball Launcher provides exquisite (gets hit with a tennis ball) Oof!—accuracy. (takes out another device) Face the hideous might of my Burgerizer 2100 hamburger patty air cannon! Eat patty!
(Cut back to the game show)
Buford: Bolshevik!
Candace: Knobby.
Phineas: Not quite.
Candace: Scamper!
Buford: Procrastination!
Candace: Scrumptuous!
Buford: Swagger. Tony!
Candace: Tony?
Buford: Y not?
Phineas: Why not?
Buford: Yeah, "Tony" backwards!
Phineas: Judges?
(Cut to Ferb dressed like Carmen Miranda. The board now says "Y NOT".)
Phineas: 30 points. Physical challenge!
Candace: Whadaya mean physical chall— (A mechanical arm pies Candace in the face. Another pair of mechanical arms puts a bag on her head) This doesn't even make any sense!
(Cut to Ferb dressed like a Vegas showgirl. The board says "THIS DOESN'T EVEN MAKE ANY SENSE!".)
Phineas: Wow! A hundred points! Candace is on fire!
Candace: Woohoo. I'm not really on fire, am I?
Buford: No, you're good.
(Cut back to Perry trying to walk away from Doofenshmirtz, but he finds him.)
Doofenshmirtz: Heh-heh! How did I find you? Well, it was easy, with my Platy-Positioner satellite global platypus locator. Patent pending. (Perry kicks him.)
(Cut back to the game show.)
Buford: Slippery snagglefoot.
Phineas: That answer is correct! Candace, do you want the minus two thousand points or do you want another physical challenge?
(Cut to Candace whose hair is now frazzled and has an inexplicable tree branch in it.)
Candace: I'll take another physical challenge.
Audience: She's taking the physical challenge!
(Cut to Jeremy's living room. Jeremy is watching TV with Coltrane.)
Coltrane: Dude, it's so cool you're in this commercial.
Jeremy: Thanks.
Coltrane: Hey, let's see if it's on another channel. Wai-w-w-wait! Is that Candace?
(Cut back to the show. Cancace is standing in front of an oven. The oven door opens and a mechanical arm pops out and pies her again. Wide shot to reveal numerous ovens with arms with pies.)
Jeremy: (offscreen) Woah! (cut back to Jeremy's living room) She's, like, a TV star! (Coltrane nods)
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz holding yet another device)
Doofenshmirtz: Not only will I defeat you with this Flab Crusher, but I'm simultaneously getting a good burn on my delts. $10.99! Hmm? (Perry holds a vacuum-like device and turns it on. Doofenshmirtz yells and they charge at each other with their devices. The vacuum-like device sucks Doofenshmirtz's face) The Tornado Vac only needs one setting because of its painfully awesome suction power! (They go out onto the balcony and Doofenshmirtz backs into his Shrinkinator-plant and activates it several times. He gets out a notepad and pencil and writes something.) Shrinkinator, why haven't I unplugged this thing? I keep leaving myself notes, and I keep forgetting. "Shrinkinator. Unplug Shrinkinator." (He sticks the note onto the Shrinkinator.) Ugh! I'll do it tomorrow. (Pan to reveal all the notes say essentially the same thing.)
(Cut back to the show.)
Phineas: This is the final question. Winner takes all! (holds up a card) What is—?
Candace: Teddy bear stuffing! (covers her mouth, close up on Ferb, close up on the audience) Be a star, Candace! Be a star! Be a star! Come on! Be a star!
Buford: Wow. Somebody's got issues.
(Phineas is about to say something but the Shrinkinator ray zaps his microphone. It then zaps Candace's podium, followed by the audience's seats, and then the stage, and the camera.)
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz and Perry's fight.)
Doofenshmirtz: (after landing near a hamburger flipper) Ha! I'll crush you with my Burgermatic hamburger flipper! (He turns it on, but the top parts simply spins around. He throws it away.) Alright, forget the Burgermatic. Let's see how you fare against my Shrinkinator! (Perry turns it on, and Doofenshmirtz shrinks.) Curse you— (Doofenshmirtz holds up his hand to reveal it is massive.) Hey! Hey, you missed my hand! Oh, now not only am I shrunken, but I'm freakishly shrunken! Curse you, Perry the Pl— (His giant hand practically crushes himself.) Aw, this is kind of heavy.
(Cut back to the backyard.)
Phineas: Hey, look, our game show set instantaneously miniaturized itself!
Ferb: Well, I suppose we could call that the home version.
Phineas: Well, we are home. Let's play it! (Perry chatters) There you are, Perry!
Candace: So what? That's it? Who won? I am so busting you guys!
Jeremy: Hi, Candace.
Candace: Hi, Jeremy.
Jeremy: I saw ya on TV and just wanted to congratulate you. I guess you're, like, on a whole new level now.
Candace: What about your commercial?
Jeremy: (takes out his smartphone) You mean this?
(Close up on the phone to show an ad showcasing primarily Jeremy's feet wearing flip flops)
(Song: "Devors")
♪ Available only at Devors ♪
♪ It's the Tri-State Area's flip-flop store. ♪
Jeremy: I was just the foot model.
Candace: Hehe, you have hunky ankles. Heh.
Jeremy: Thanks. I like your...branch.
Candace: (takes branch out) Heh-heh, you should have seen me covered in pie.
(They both laugh)
Jeremy: What kind of pie?



(Opens with Phineas and Ferb playing with a swingset they invented)
Phineas: Hi, Mom.
Linda: Hi, boys. What are you kids up to today?
Phineas: Just trying out our new invention. It's called the Ladybug 2000 Roving Swingset. Want a whirl?
Linda: (oblivious) Not right now, sweetie. I'm going to the gardening store. Something's been eating my hydrangeas.
(The hydrangeas are literally being sucked into the ground.)
(They land outside the backyard, Isabella walks by holding a sign reading "Save the Starnose Mole")
Phineas: Hey, Isabella. (Seeing Ferb lands with the air bag) Good thing we installed an air bag. So, what'cha dooooin'?
Isabella: The Fireside Girls are trying to raise money to save the star-nose mole.
Phineas: And how's it going?
Isabella: (Sadly) Not very well. We started a bake sale... (cut to Holly, whose face and hair are all blown up,  holding a burnt bag, Isabella continues off screen) ...then we tried cat-sitting... (pan to Ginger with scratch marks, torn clothes and a similar sign, cat hair falls from her) ...even a lemonade stand... (pan to Katie, body nearly wrapped in bandages) ...but, nothing worked.
Phineas: Now what's a good way to raise some money? (Epiphany) I got it! We construct a zip line from the top of Danville's tallest skyscraper all the way to our--
Isabella: (Interrupting Phineas) Or we could have a car wash!
Phineas: That's good too! We'll build the best dang car wash in the whole dang world, dang it. (To Ferb) I can't really pull that off, can I?
Ferb: You're not very street.
Phineas: (Sadly) Yeah. (Realizing) Hey, where's Perry?

(Cut to Perry in backyard in front of a pile of dirt. He runs and dives into the pile, which leads to a series of tubes that eventually drop him onto his chair, which slides along a track to in front of the screen.)
Major Monogram: Way to stick that landing, Agent P. (Holds up a sign with 9.5 written on it.)
(Monogram moves aside and Carl joins him on screen, holding up an "8.5" sign.)
Major Monogram: (to Carl) Eight and a half, Carl? Really?
Carl: Well, sir, he did separate his feet a little on the reentry.
Major Monogram: Carl! Ugh! (Looking off screen) Hey is something burning over on the stove?
Carl: My spaghetti! (Runs off)
Major Monogram: (to Perry) Anywho, we've had some grave concerns. Seems there's been some extreme seismic activity in the area. We're pretty sure our old friend Doofenshmirtz is up to no good.
(Carl reenters, interrupting Monogram)
Carl: Excuse me sir. (Holding up booklet entitled "Seismic Activity and Quakes - by Carl") I wrote my sophomore thesis on quakes and seismic events. If you want you can check out my website.
Major Monogram: Ugh, Carl. Spaghetti.
Carl: Oh, that's right! (Drops booklet and runs off screen)

(Cut to view of sky. A plane flies overhead. Cardboard boxes and animals, all with parachutes, fall from the plane and land in Phineas and Ferb's back yard. Cut to Phineas and Worker)
Worker: Hey, here's your delivery, kid. Friction rollers, spot-free rinser, individual driers, turbo spray nozzles, jet powered vacuum, atomic collider.
Phineas: I suppose you're going to ask me if I'm to young to use this stuff.
Worker: Nah, just try not to blow a hole through the earth's core, or we'll both be in deep doody.
Phineas: Okay.
(Cut to Candace in her room, on the phone. Construction can be seen through the window in the background.)
Candace: Stacy, I sent Jeremy a text message twelve minutes ago and he still hasn't answered. You don't think I'm making a big deal out of this?
Stacy: No way.
Candace: What am I going to do, Stacy?
Stacy: You've got to play hard to get.
Candace: Hard to get?
Stacy: Jeremy thinks you'll go with him anywhere, anytime, just for the asking. Don't be a lapdog, Candace. Just say no!
(Candace's phone beeps and she looks at it.)
Candace: Uh-oh, Stacy. That's Jeremy. (Presses button on phone to talk to Jeremy) Hello?
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. I'm taking my mom's car to this crazy new car wash. Would you like to go for a ride?
Candace: A car? That is so grown up. I mean, hold please? (Presses button on phone to talk to Stacy.) Stacy, Jeremy is asking me out for a ride, in a car!
Stacy: Wow, that's so grown up! But you gotta be strong. Remember, hard to get.
Candace: Right, hard to get. I'll call you back. (Presses button on phone to talk to Jeremy.) Umm, about the car and the ride, I would love to (Candace screams. Jeremy holds the phone away from his ear as the force of Candace's scream makes his hair blow back.) Wait, I mean, I better check my schedule. (Covers phone and hums victory music to herself). You're in luck. I can just squeeze you in. 
Jeremy: Great. Pick you up later.
Candace: (Puts down phone.) Ahh, Jeremy. (Presses button on phone to talk to Stacy.) Stacy, I am like so hard to get right now. It's like totally-- (Notices the construction outside her window.) Wait, what in the... Gotta go, Stacy.
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb in back yard. Ferb is holding the switch for a cannon-like machine.)
Phineas: Alright, Ferb. Let's test out the turbo-charged uber-nozzle.
Candace: (From her window.) What the heck is going-- (Gets cut off mid sentence as she is sprayed by water from the turbo-charged uber-nozzle.)
Phineas: It works!

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
(Perry walks by "Anti-Platypus Security" sign, runs down a hallway consisting of a series of dangerous traps: spiked doors, laser beams, fish, swinging blades. He opens an air vent and drops into Doofenshmirtz's apartment.)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, it looks like that anti-platypus security system was a total waste of money. I am so taking that back.
(Perry gets caught in a rope hanging from a fake palm tree and ends up dangling by his feet.)
Doofenshmirtz: Thank goodness for old reliable traps, huh? I'm so glad you're going to hang around. (Laughs) Anyway, you arrived just in time to witness the unveiling of my latest invention. Let me introduce to you the Mountain-out-of-a-Molehill-inator. All my life, I was told, (Begin a series of flashbacks) "Don't make a mountain out of a molehill," "Don't make a mountain out of a molehill," "Don't make a mountain out of a molehill." Well now I intend to do just that. This machine will infuse electricity into a small little sphere of compressed nitrogen molecules, which I will then drop into the earth and it will make all the tiny little molehill molecules grow and grow into enormous mo-- (Stops mid-sentence) You know, it's kind of complicated. I learned about it on some kid's website. (Shows computer monitor with Carl's website on the screen.) Oh, oh, and you know what else I found on the web? It's these pictures of cats and they write these—oh, l-l-l-look at this one, "Invisible Cheeseburger". (Perry, still upside-down, looks unimpressed.) No, huh? Well, it's not for everyone, I just think they're funny. Anyway, so I take the sphere, electrify it, drop it in the ground, ta-da! Mountains! Out of molehills! (Perry unimpressed) I know when people say that, they usually mean it figuratively, it's an analogy, bu-bu-but making a point, I can do whatever I want.

(Cut to Baljeet and Buford in mole suits holding signs in front of Phineas and Ferb's house. Baljeet's sign says "Save the Mole" and Buford's says "Wash your Car")
Baljeet: I will be honest. I think we look ridiculous.
Buford: Are you kiddin'? (Flips his sign, stands on his hands, and holds it with his feet.) I make this look good.
(Cut to the backyard, where a very extravagant car wash now stands.)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb, let's fire this baby up!
(Ferb pulls a lever activating the car wash. We hear B-52's-esque new wave music in the background.)
(Song: "Phintastic Ferbulous Car Wash")
♪ Boyawadda boyawadda bum bobay abadda ♪
♪ Boyawadda boyawadda bum bobay abadda ♪
♪ Boyawadda boyawadda bum bobay abaddawadda ♪
Candace: Oh, they are so busted! Alright, you dweebs, what's going on here? (walking into the conveyor belt) I don't have time for this! I've got a huge date and—AAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHH!!!! AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHH!!!!
Danny Jacob: ♪ Scrub! Scrub! (Scrub!) Gotta get it all clean! ♪
Phineas: (a la Fred Schneider) ♪ Just drive on in to our brand new machine! ♪
Danny Jacob: ♪ Shake! Shake! (Shake!) Gotta shake off the grime! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Just cruise on in, if you've got the time! ♪
Phineas and Danny Jacob: ♪ When your Hot Rod's looks have gone downhill, ♪
♪ We'll put a smile right back on its grill, ♪
♪ You're gonna feel better, you know you will! ♪
Phineas: ♪ At the Phin-tastic Ferb-ulous Car Wash! ♪
Isabella, Fireside Girls and Danny Jacob: ♪ When your ride has lost its sheen, ♪
♪ And your white walls have turned green, ♪
♪ We'll soak and spray your car pristine, ♪
♪ And scrub your undercarriage clean! (clean!) ♪
Candace: AAAAAAAAAAHHHHHH!!!!!
Danny Jacob:' ♪ Rinse! Rinse! (Rinse!) Gotta rinse off the muck! ♪
Phineas: ♪ You won't recognize that old pick-up truck! ♪
Danny Jacob: ♪ Flush! Flush! (Flush!) We're gonna flush out the gunk! ♪ 
Phineas: ♪ Just come on in, we'll get you out of your funk! ♪
Baljeet: ♪ If you haven't figured out yet... ♪
Buford: ♪ It's the place you should be! ♪
Phineas and Danny Jacob: ♪ Take it from us, we're even on your TV! ♪
♪ And with every wash you get this cute little tree! ♪
All: ♪ At the Phin-tastic Ferb-ulous Car Wash! Car Wash! (At the Phin-tastic Ferb-ulous Car Wash!) ♪
Candace: (coming out the wash) Blech! Ptoo! Let me outta here! Just wait 'til I get my hands on those two little— (her phone rings) Jeremy?! Oh, hi, Jeremy! Are you here yet?
Jeremy: (on phone) Well...
(Cut to Jeremy in his car)
Jeremy: I'm havin' a hard time gettin' there. (Cut to outside the car to reveal a huge traffic jam.) Looks like the whole town is going to this cool new car wash.
(Cut back to Candace.)
Jeremy: (on phone) I might have to make it some other time.
Candace: Wait, no! I-I mean I've got to put you on hold. (picks up other call) Stacy! Wow, I can't believe you're still there.
(Cut to Stacy.)
Stacy: So how is "hard to get" working?
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: Working? Now I'm impossible to get! And now Jeremy's playing hard to get.
Phineas: Wow! This car wash is really hoppin'! At this rate, the star-nosed mole will be saved in no time!
Candace: Phineas, I'd love to bust you, but if you don't speed up this car wash, I'm going to miss my date with Jeremy!
Phineas: No biggie, big sister.  (on phone)  This is Big Squirt to Super Suds.
(Cut to Ferb.)
Phineas: (on intercom) ¡Accelerado, por favor! (Ferb pulls a couple of levers and the wash and the song speed up.)
♪ Boyawaddaboyawaddabumbobayabadda ♪
Candace: Wait! Too fast! (She spins around the roofs of the cars before the belt stops and she lands on the windshield of Jeremy's car.)
Jeremy: Wow! That was quite an entrance!
Candace: Jeremy! Heh-heh, heh, heh, you made it! Oh, I must look like a wreck.
Jeremy: No, you look great! Hop in! (Candace opens the side door and gets in.) What'd you do to your hair?
Candace: Hot wax...and a sealer I think.
Jeremy: I like it! I'm really glad that you're goin' with me.
Candace: There's nothing I'd rather be doing.
(Cut to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: I put an energy whatchamacallit in here and... (pushes the remote, nothing happens. Pushes it rapidly several times, still nothing happens.) Nice. (He walks up to an electrical fuse-tank and opens a small door and gets a battery out.) Wow, these things go fast. I guess I need a new battery. (Looks in his electrical toothbrush) Nope. (Looks in a toy car.) Nope. (Looks in a flashlight.) Uh-uh. (Looks in Frankenstein's monster's head.) Not here. (Looks in a cymbal-banging monkey toy.) Nope. (Looks in his radio.) Ah! Nope. (Looks in his smoke detector.) Nope. (Looks in his alarm clock.) Nope. (Looks in Norm's butt.) No. (Cut to Doof holding a new battery.) Finally! (He loses his grip on the battery and it goes under the fridge.) Ah, dangit!! Oh, sorry, Perry, I didn't mean to get all street there. But now (bends down) it's probably got all that grease and refrigerator fluff on it. Oh, there's my retainer! (He puts it in his mouth off screen.)
(Cut back to the car wash.)
Candace: This is so romantic. It's like we're going through our very own tunnel of l—
(They both gasp as a water balloon splashes onto the windshield.)
Phineas: (offscreen to the Fireside Girls) Go! Go!
Candace: AAAAHH!!!
Jeremy: No worries. I'll protect you.
(A huge water balloons splashes onto the car and it goes down a whirpool.)
♪ Boyawadda boyawadda bum bobay abadda ♪
♪ Boyawadda boyawadda bum bobay abadda ♪
♪ Boyawadda boyawadda bum bobay abadda ♪
♪ Boya ♪
♪ Boyawadda boyawadda bum bobay abaddawadda! ♪
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz.)
Doofenshmirtz: Alright, here we go! The energy ball is growing and... (He presses the button and the ball drops onto the platform.) Ah. Alright, time for the unstuckinator. (A giant boot crushes the inator. We pan down all the floors of the building as the energy ball goes through every one of them.) You know, in hindsight, I probably shoulda done this in the basement.
(Cut to outside the buidling where the energy ball surrounds several molehills, turning them into mountains.)
(Cut to the car wash, which lifts up. The Fireside Girls scream and run for cover. The mountain breaks apart revealing a humongous star-nosed mole.)
Phineas: Wow. I guess that's who's been eating Mom's hydrangeas.
(The mole stomps around the suburbs, while the mountain disappears.)
Phineas: Well, looks like they're safe now.
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz at several TV monitors.)
Doofenshmirtz: It's workiiiing! It's workiiiiiiiiing!! And so much better than I thought it would! (Perry throws his fedora, which breaks apart some heating tunnels and drop onto the switch) All my life, everyone told me I couldn't make a mountain out of a molehill, well, everybody, take (Doof gets electrocuted) THAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA-ow!
(Perry escapes from his trap, and runs onto the remote control.)
Doofenshmirtz: Why do I even bother? (The giant boot crushes Doof.)
(Perry makes his escape.)
Computer: System overload. Cliché explosion imminent.
(Perry dives down from the building and his hang-glider pops out.)
♪ Agent P! ♪
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz under the boot.)
Doofenshmirtz: Who wears a shoe this size anyway?
(Doof and the boot fling out from the roof.)
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Platypus!
(Cut to the giant mole rampaging all over Danville.)
Japanese Guy: Oh, no! It's a hideous giant mole!
Guy with Huge Mole on His Head: Hey, shut up!
Japanese Guy: No no! That mole, ya fool!
(Jeremy's car drops down from the car wash and down the mole's tail.)
Candace: I don't know what that was, but let's do it again! (her phone rings) Stacy?
Stacy: (on videophone & Angrily) Candace?! What the heck are you doin'?! You're supposed to be playing hard to ge—
(Candace hangs up and smiles nervously.)
(Cut to the Doofenshmirtz in the Boot on a beach.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh. Ohhh, where am I? Hey, check it out! An aglet!
(The mole's giant foot goes into the boot.)
Doofenshmirtz: So this is why you shouldn't make mountains out of molehills. (The mole goes into the ocean.) Curse you, giant mole!
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb in the backyard. Perry approaches them.)
Phineas: There goes a perfectly good car wash. (sees Perry) Oh, there you are, Perry!
Isabella: (walks up) Oh no! Now, how are we s'posed to save the star-nose mole?!
Ferb: I think he can take care of himself.

End Credits
Danny Jacob:' ♪ Rinse! Rinse! (Rinse!) Gotta rinse off the muck! ♪
Phineas: ♪ You won't recognize that old pick-up truck! ♪
Danny Jacob: ♪ Flush! Flush! (Flush!) We're gonna flush out the gunk! ♪ 
Phineas: ♪ Just come on in, we'll get you out of your funk! ♪
Danny Jacob ♪ If you haven't figured out yet, it's the place you should be! ♪
Phineas and Danny Jacob: ♪ Take it from us, we're even on your TV! ♪
♪ And with every wash you get this cute little tree! ♪
All: ♪ At the Phin-tastic Ferb-ulous Car Wash! Car Wash! (At the Phin-tastic Ferb-ulous Car Wash!) ♪
♪Boyawadda boyawadda bum bobay abaddawadda ♪



(The scene opens at night in Danville. Phineas and Ferb are sleeping; Perry suddenly crawls away from Phineas to Ferb's bed. He steps on, kneads on a blanket, and falls asleep. Ferb puts his arm around Perry. After Perry settles down, preparing to go back to sleep, his wristwatch communicator glows, signaling a code red emergency. He tries to sneak away but Ferb immediately seems to notice so Perry quickly sticks a log under his arm instead. The camera switches to Candace, downstairs, carrying a glass of milk.)
Candace: Ugh, no more peach and pumpernickel sandwiches before bed. (Candace trips over Agent P, she looks back) YOU!
(Perry, back in his pet mode, chatters. Candace picks him up and puts him outside)
Candace: For an animal that doesn't do much, you sure know how to make a mess of things!
(After Candace leaves, Perry puts on his fedora again before mimicking Candace. He then heads to the stone-walk and enters into his lair.)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. I've got bad news and good news. The bad news is you're being reassigned to a new, more evil villain. His name: The Regurgitator.
Carl: You keep pushing him down, but he keeps coming back up!
Major Monogram: That's not funny, Carl. That's just disgusting.
Carl: You laughed earlier!
Major Monogram: It was a pity laugh. Anyway, Dr. Doofenshmirtz had to be downgraded to minor threat status, and we've just assigned Agent S to his case. The good news is you've been relocated away from your host family to this new family in the Quad-State Area.
(Perry looks on with a shocked look on his face.)
Carl: (whispering) It's the other way around, sir.
Major Monogram: Oh, yes-yes, of course. Bad news is the relocation, and the good news is the new villain thing. Uh...just make sure you take your belongings from the house when you leave.

(The following morning, Candace is eating cereal at the table with a bored look on her face. Phineas and Ferb walk into the kitchen; the former looking a bit sad.)
Phineas: Good morning, Candace.
Candace: What's so great about it?
Phineas: Not much. We can't find Perry anywhere. He's never missed breakfast, not even once.
Candace: Uhh, you don't think he could've argued with someone, at say... 3:38 am, got his feelings hurt, then run away, do you?
Phineas: Nah, he never would've gone outside on purpose. Everybody knows that platypuses are supposed to stay inside at night. You haven't seen him anywhere, have you?
Candace: (nervously) Well, maybe he just wandered off. Doesn't he always wander off at some point in the day? A-And then later, when he comes back, you say, "Oh, there you are, Perry", and he says, (mimics Perry's chatter)
Phineas: Yeah, but he's always here in the morning.
(Cut to outside the kitchen window where Agent P is watching the scene, carrying a bundle.)
Phineas: I'd be devastated if something happened to him.
(Perry looks from his food bowl back to Phineas and the others sadly before he uses his jet pack to leave.)

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(A door bell is heard and Doofenshmirtz walks over, clad in only a towel.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hold on, I'm coming! (He opens the door and a gift basket is sitting in outside in the hallway.) Another gift basket? (He takes a card off of it.) (reading) "We regret to inform you that due to The Regurgitator's recent evil behavior, you have been downgraded to a minor threat. If you believe this to be a mistake, please fill out the included appeal." A minor threat?! Regurgitator. Ugh, well there's a lot of weirdos out there. (He goes to his computer and types on it) Oh, here we go. He has his own blog. (He reads) "The World's Most Evil Villain"?! Who does this upstart think he is? It's time to show him who's boss! (He rushes off screen and the towel is laying on the floor, his head appears with a nervous smile as he quickly picks it up.)

(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard.)
Phineas: All right, Ferb. Activate the Platy-Attracker 3000. If Perry's anywhere in Danville, this'll bring him home.
(Ferb activates the Platy-Attracker. It mimics Perry's chatter and a huge crowd of platypuses suddenly arrive in the backyard.)
Phineas: Wow. I didn't know there were so many platypuses in Danville.

(At the motel, Doofenshmirtz drives up to the entrance in his truck.)
Doofenshmirtz:' Geez, what a dump! (enters into the motel) (mockingly) So much for Mr. Big Shot Super-villain. (walks over to the man at the front desk) Uh, yeah hi. I'm looking for someone named... (Checks piece of paper) Mr. "The Regurgitator."
(The man rings a bell, and the front desk slides away to reveal a secret elevator. Doofenshmirtz steps inside the elevator curiously, and screams as it speeds down to the lab. Doofenshmirtz enters and sees a big red "Do not push" button.)
Doofenshmirtz: Do not push?" Hmm.
(He stares at it for a few seconds before he pushes the button and is sucked into a vacuum tube. He lands hard on the ground in another room.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, my Heinz henie! Look at this. All this technology, a giant vacuum tube, and they can't afford a throw pillow? (notices The Regurgitator nearby) Oh, hello.
The Regurgitator: I am The Regurgitator!
(The lights flash like lightning while thunder and dramatic music is heard.)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, okay. My name is Heinz Doofenshmirtz. (pauses) Tadaa! ...Oh, I'm sorry, I don't know have the whole... Where are those lights coming from, by the way, when you do that?
The Regurgitator: You're that disturbed lunatic from Danville.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, you've heard of me?
The Regurgitator: Yes, and you've heard of me!
"(The thunder and lightning happens again.)
Doofenshmirtz: Seriously. Where's that coming... (Notices Perry in a trap) Oh, look, you've already captured Perry the Platypus! My, you do work fast.
The Regurgitator: Why don't you fill up these forms and I'll consider you for a three-year internship. (hands him some papers before walking away.)
Doofenshmirtz: I am not here to apply for an internship. (looks at the first sheet) Ooh! You offer maternity leave.
The Regurgitator: You can start by making a fresh pot of coffee!
(Thunder, lightning, and dramatic music happens again.)

(Cut to the backyard, where Ferb holds up each platypus to Phineas, who explains why it's not Perry.)
Phineas: Nope, Ferb, not Perry. This little guy's eyes are too close together and his beak is orange. Perry's is more of a tangerine. Nope, too fat. Too thin. Too cartoon-y. (Holds nose) Whoa, that one smells like meatloaf!
(Cut to town, where Candace is walking around, calling for Perry.)
Candace: Perry? Perry the Platypus! Huh? (notices a platypus tail sticking around a nearby corner.) Perry! Get over here. (runs over and pulls on the tail) You're coming home with me so I won't get in trouble with the...
(A woman taps her on the shoulder and Candace sees it's not Perry or a platypus, but a beaver she was pulling.) You have a pet beaver?
Woman: You have a pet platypus.
Candace: Touche.
(Cut back to the backyard.)
Phineas: Nope, too blue. Too angular. Too French. That one's just a duck with a beaver tail taped on. Well, that was the last of them. Maybe we need to think bigger. And with music! Perry just loves music, remember?
(There's a flashback of baby Phineas and baby Perry. Phineas taps a key on his xylophone and Perry chatters. The flashback ends, going back to Phineas and Ferb.)
Phineas: Let's get the guitars. I've got an idea.

(Scene shifts to the Regurgitator's lair.)
Doofenshmirtz: What are you looking at, Perry the Platypus? This is a great job! And look at all I've accomplished. I mean, just today, I organized this evil invoices, swept his evil lair, picked up his evil dry cleaning. And look, I even had the time to do this, see? "Best Boss." And if I do a good job, I could be promoted to head assistant in just three months! Where are you gonna be in three months, huh, huh?
The Regurgitator: Never mind the three months. I'll take care of him right now!
(thunder, lighting, and music plays again)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait a minute. First of all, he's my nemesis! And you can't get rid of him now. Where's the fun in that? You need to explain your whole plan to him. Don't you have a nemesis?
The Regurgitator: Me? The world is my nemesis! (pauses before clicking some buttons on his watch) Sorry, this thing doesn't always work. The world is my nemesis!
(thunder, lightning, and music plays again)

(Back in town with Candace)
Candace: Perry's gone, and it's...it's just my fault. I can't take it anymore. I'm gonna have to tell the boys. (notices the silhouettes of Phineas and Ferb through a curtain) Oh, there they are. Well, I guess now's as good a time as any. Phineas, Ferb, I just have to tell you that I'm the one who...
(The curtains open to reveal that it's not Phineas and Ferb but Marty the Rabbit Boy and his musical blender)
Marty the Rabbit Boy: Hey.
Candace: Marty the Rabbit Boy and his musical blender?
Marty the Rabbit Boy: Maybe this'll make you feel better. (plays the chorus of Gitchee Gitchee Goo on his blender)
Candace: Eh, not so much.

(Scene shifts to the Regurgitator's lair)
Doofenshmirtz: Don't look at me like that, Perry the Platypus. I know what you're thinking. I-I'm not some lowly intern. I'm an evil scientist! I'm Heinz Doofenshmirtz, and he should be bowing down to me! (at the Regurgitator) Hey you, Mr. Regurgitator! Let's get things straight!
The Regurgitator: What?
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, okay. (to Perry) See that, Perry the Platypus? Compromise.
(Perry blinks)
Doofenshmirtz: Who am I kidding? Grrr. (at himself as he goes over to The Regurgitator) You can do it, you can do it, you can do it. Okay, Regurgitator! I've done everything for you. See those hard-to-reach files up there? Well I invented these rocket shoes just so you can reach them! And look at this! I even put in the self-destruct button that you forgot!
The Regurgitator: What? Why is it counting down?
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, well, I may have pressed it by mistake. But at least I didn't push the release button I installed inside Perry the Platypus's cage!
(Perry presses the release button with his foot and escapes his trap)
The Regurgitator: Look what you've done! You've pushed my buttons for the last time, you disturbed lunatic!
(Perry switches the lever from "blow" to "suck" by throwing his food bowl at it.)
The Regurgitator: Now get ready to--(gets sucked up by the vacuum tube) Aaaahhh!
Doofenshmirtz: We did it! We did it! Lo hicimos! We did it!
(Perry puts on the rocket shoes and grabs Doofenshmirtz. They go through the tube before the lair blows up. Major Monogram appears on his wrist communicator)
Major Monogram: Congratulations, Agent P. You've defeated the Regurgitator. As a matter of fact, he just landed in our prison. You can return immediately to your host family, and Dr. Doofenshmirtz is once again your nemesis.
Doofenshmirtz: So, if we're enemies again, does that mean... (Perry drops him) Aaaah! Curse you, Perry the Platypus! (tumbles before finally landing on a throw pillow) Oh, now see there, a throw pillow. You, you guys do it right!

(Scene shifts to on top of a building in Danville)
Phineas: Excellent. From the top of this building, everyone in the Tri-State Area should be able to hear us.
(Song: Come Home Perry)
(Ferb starts playing the guitar)
Phineas: ♪ Perry, you know you are a boy's best friend ♪
♪ You're more than just a passing trend ♪
♪ You're like a treat from a candy store ♪
♪ Oh, Perry, we love you more than ice cream cakes ♪
♪ We love you more than bugs and snakes ♪
♪ We love you more than all things mentioned before ♪
♪ Oh, Perry, you're extraordinary ♪
♪ You're kinda short and hairy ♪
♪ The color of a blueberry ♪
Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella: ♪ Yes, Perry ♪
All: ♪ So come home, Perry ♪
♪ Come home, Perry, come home ♪
(Candace arrives)
Phineas: Hey, Candace, why don't you sing one?
Candace: Um... ♪ Oh, Perry, I think its kinda scary ♪
♪ I can't find you any where-y ♪
♪ It fills me with despair-y? ♪
♪ Oh, Perry, I'm allergic to dairy ♪
♪ I'm gonna move to the prairie, ♪
♪ And change my name to Larry ♪
Phineas: Larry?
Candace: I ran out of rhymes, all right?
Crowd: ♪ She'll change her name to Larry! ♪
♪ Larry! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Larry! ♪
All: ♪ So, come home, Perry, ♪
♪ Come home, Perry, come home ♪
♪ So, come home, Perry ♪
♪ Come home, Perry, come home ♪
♪ Come home, Perry, come home ♪
(Perry chatters)
Candace: Oh, there you are, Perry.
Phineas: Perry!
(Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Baljeet and the Fireside Girls hug Perry)
Buford: (Comes and takes Candace's microphone) Good job, Larry.
Candace: Welcome home.



Phineas: Alright, crew, prepare to set sail for the hunt of a lifetime! Ensign Isabella, raise the jib!
Isabella: Aye, aye, captain Phineas.
Phineas: Ahoy, Ferb! Any sign of the great white whale?
Candace: You guys better not be talking about me!
Linda: Boys, can't you wait until we get the boat in the water?
Lawrence: Well, it's not actually called a boat, darling, it's called a sloop. When we're on sea there's no right or left, only port and starboard.
Isabella: So... which side has the restroom?
Lawrence: It's not a restroom, it's-
Phineas: It's called the poopdeck.
Lawrence: Well no, actually, it's called the head.
Phineas: Really? Cause poopdeck makes much more sense.
Candace: Dad, can we just get this over with? Jeremy's throwing a romantic summer soiree at sunset tonight. I'm kind of on a deadline here.
Lawrence: Oh, don't worry, darling, it's only gonna be a three hour tour.
Candace: A three hour tour?
Linda: You can use the time to soak up some vitamin D.
Candace: Fine!
Lawrence: Candace distracted - check! Kids with the lifejackets!
Phineas: Check!
Lawrence: Excellent! Family pet. Say, where's Perry?
Phineas: Oh, Perry stayed home. Baljeet's watching him.
(Scene switches at front of the Flynn-Fletcher house. Baljeet's watching Perry in the front yard.)
Buford: Hey Baljeet, what'cha doin'?
Baljeet: I am watching Perry the Platypus. I promised to not take my eyes out off him all day.
Buford: Well, this is lame.
Baljeet: He's a platypus, they do not do much.
Buford: Maybe he needs some motivation. (Swings a baseball bat)
Baljeet: No, no please! I have given them my solemn oath to protect the little monotreme until the Flynn family comes home.
(Perry's wristwatch communicator starts beeping)
Baljeet: What is that weird noise?
Buford: I don't know, maybe a car alarm? (Perry stands up and puts the wristwatch communicator into his mouth)
Baljeet: Wait, I think it stopped. (The wristwatch communicator is still beeping inside of Perry. Baljeet and Buford look at him)
(Scene switches to Flynn-Fletcher's boat)
Isabella: Hey Phineas, what'cha doin'?
Phineas: My king-of-the-world bit. Hey, check that out!
(Two dolphins jump, and it jumps again with Ferb, and jump again)
Phineas: And look at those cool flags.
Isabella: According to my Fireside Girls manual each one of those flags has meaning. The blue flag means crab season and the yellow flag means hold the mustard, and that one, I'm not sure what that one means.
Candace: Okay, who turned off the sun?
Isabella: Oh, here it is. The red flag with the black box means...storm warning!!
Lawrence: You kids get below! I'll head us back to shore! Wooah!
Linda: Lawrence, we're heading towards that whirlpool.
Lawrence: Keep faith in me, my darling! I have everything under control!!!
Major Monogram: (on Perry's wristwatch communicator) Agent P, come in! Agent P? Blast it, Carl, why doesn't he answer?
Buford: I think it's comin' from his stomach. (He picks up Perry, and put onto his shoulder)
Baljeet: He must be hungry. I will get him something to eat.
Buford: Don't worry, little ducky thing, we're gonna take good care of you.
(Perry then sticks his tongue out with the wristwatch communicator on it)
Major Monogram: Is everything all right, Agent P? I'm sensing you're in a bit of a jam. Can you get us a better view of the situation? 
Buford: I'm gonna hug you and squeeze you and never let you go.
Major Monogram: Looks like we picked a bad day to send all of our field agents to sensitivity training. We're all out of options. (gasps) I was hoping this day would never come, but, Carl, this is your big chance!
(Carl gets raised up on a chair as Monogram salutes him.)
(Song: "Carl, the Intern")
♪ Carl! ♪
♪ He works a camera! ♪
♪ Carl! ♪
♪ He knows what all those buttons do! ♪
♪ Carl! ♪
♪ He'll clear the paper jam! ♪
♪ Carl! ♪
♪ And he'll pick up the laundry, too. ♪
♪ He knows how to format, spell check and text edit. ♪
♪ He's workin' this job just for college credit! ♪
♪ He's Carl, the intern! ♪
♪ Carl! ♪
(A record scratch is heard and ice cream truck music is heard, as Carl is now seen driving an ice cream truck.)
(Cut to Lawrence and Linda in the rain.)
Linda: Ugh, I think it's finally clearing up.
Lawrence: Well, the ship held together pretty good, didn't it? (Cut to reveal Lawrence is holding the wheel surrounded by debris from the wreckage.) Of course, we'll have to re-attach the wheel (Cut to reveal the sloop on a rock.) and fix that, uh, giant hole. Now, kids, are you all right?
Phineas: We're fine!
Isabella: Hey, where's Ferb?
Phineas: Are you okay?
(Phineas sees what looks like Ferb's legs. He lifts them up to reveal they are only his pants. Ferb, covering his birthday suit with a giant leaf, walks over to get them.)
Phineas: Oh, there you are. And there's Candace!
(Cut to reveal Candace with a giant barrel on her head. She pulls it off to reveal a squid on her face.)
Candace: Hey, what gives?! (She pulls the squid off to reveal a fish in her mouth and lobsters on her ears. She pulls the lobsters off and spits out the fish.)
Lawrence: (inspecting the hole) Whoa, this doesn't look too good at all. Kids, don't come up here! It's far too dangerous! Mum and I will fix the boat. Candace, why don't you look for some food? And, boys, you could find us some shelter if you like. We may be here for a while.
Candace: A while?!!? You mean we're stranded?!? That means I won't get to Jeremy's party before the sun sets!!! We'll be stuck here forever eating rocks and bugs, then I'll have to marry a monkey and have monkey kids and name them Xavier and Amanda!!! (sobs)
Lawrence: And we'll love them anyway. Candace, the sooner we get started, the sooner we all get to go home.
Candace: Fine.
Lawrence: Stay safe, everyone! (Linda waves)
Phineas: Shelter....shelter.... Well, this spot has potential.
Isabella: Great, let's get started!
(Song: "Quirky Worky Song" (Tropical Island Version))
Montage: The gang map out the shelter and get started working on it.

(Cut to Carl in the ice cream truck.)
Major Monogram: (on monitor in truck) Remember, Carl, nothing distracts kids like ice cream. You need to get rid of those two boys so Agent P can proceed with his mission.
Carl: (salutes) Aye aye, sir!
Major Monogram: Both hands on the wheel, Carl!
Carl: Sorry, sir.
(Cut to Perry.)
Baljeet: Oh, Perry, I could not find the platypus food.
(The ice cream truck music is heard in the distance.)
Buford: Oh, boy!
Baljeet and Buford: (running off) Ice cream! Ice cream!
(Perry puts on his fedora. But then puts it in his mouth when Baljeet returns.)
Baljeet: Oh, I almost forgot Perry. Come along. Let us get you a little treat. (Baljeet grabs Perry, who holds onto the grass.)
Buford: Gimme a double caramel fudge.
Carl: Here you go.
Buford: Ugh! Hey, this is butterscotch ripple! (A small door slides up on the truck with a lit arrow. Perry spits out his fedora, puts it on and zips into it.) Is this your first day on the job or somethin'?!
(The truck speeds out.)
Buford: Hey, he didn't charge me! Rookie mistake.
Baljeet: I did not even get to—Wait?! Where is Perry?
(Cut back to the truck.)
Carl: Glad to have you back, Agent P. You lost some time, but I brought along the escape cone.
(Cut to the roof of the truck. The strawberry ice cream on top launches revealing a cone under it with Agent P riding it. When it becomes airborne, wings pop out of it. A monitor appears on the cherry.)
Major Monogram: (on monitor) Agent P, we've just received reports that Doofenshmirtz has been buying up all the laundry detergent in the Tri-State Area. We want you to find out what he's up to and put a stop to it. You'll need to use your tracking device to find him before your delicious ice cream cone melts. (Perry salutes. An island appears on the screen. Perry lands on the island.)
(Cut to Candace wandering around.)
Candace: (imitating her father) "Oh, Candace, go find us some food." Yeah, like a quart of ice cream is just gonna fall out of the— (The strawberry ice cream from the escape cone lands on her head.)
(Cut to Perry. The cone backfires and Perry falls down. A parachute comes out of the cherry. He lands into a volcano to see Doofenshmirtz surrounded by lots of dirty clothes.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ugh, where is Perry the Platypus? He should have been here hours ago. (Perry approaches him) Ah, Perry the Platypus. Well, y'know, I had a trap for you, but no time. (Grabs him and runs off) This one's a little complicated, okay? (He puts Perry in a chair in front of a screen.) You remember a few schemes ago when I couldn't figure out what "Big Laundry" meant? (A slide of Doofenshmirtz from "The Lake Nose Monster" appears on the screen.) Well, this! (Another slide appears) This is what I meant! I am nefariously planning to provide the entire population of the Tri-State Area with free laundry, (change slide) which will drive out of business all of the local laundromats, (change slide) freeing up prime real estate locations (change slide) for my newest franchise: the Doofenshmirtz Institute of Evilology, where in only six weeks, students can earn a certificate in mayhem, larceny, or Ponzi schemes. (end slideshow) And I'm here in this volcano on this deserted island 'cause I get all this free monkey labor. (Whip pan to reveal a bunch of monkeys turning a wheel around.) I control them all with my Monkey-Enslave-inator helmet. And all I had to do was build one of them, because, you know, monkey see, monkey do. Hey hey! (to a monkey) Yeah, you can't put the red clothes in with the white wash! You'll turn the whole batch into a big pink mess! (points to another area) Bright colors over there, you incompetent baboon! Literally. Okay, now what was I talking about? (Perry wheels the basket into Doofenshmirtz.)
(Cut to the streets of Danville, where lots of "Lost Perry" fliers appear all over.)
Baljeet: Perry! Where are you?! Oh, it is no use. I fear he is gone for good.
Buford: Why don't you just buy him a new one? They won't know the difference.
Baljeet: You cannot just buy a—Wait. That gives me an idea!
(Cut to Candace collecting coconuts.)
Candace: We don't need to eat. We need to get out of here! (tries to get a coconut off a tree) I swear, if I don't get to Jeremy's party— (A monkey appears from behind the bushes and kisses her) Yuck! Monkey cooties!
(The monkey grabs Candace and leads her up a ladder of monkeys and flings her into a hut.)
Phineas: So, what do you think of our shelter?
Candace: (dusts herself off and shouts in her brother's face) CAN'T YOU JUST BE NORMAL FOR ONE DAY?!? All you had to do was make a little lean-to for survival.
Phineas: Well, there's survival and then there's living. (Zoom out to reveal the entirety of the shelter. Phineas pushes Candace inside.) Let us give ya a quick tour. We've got everything we need to make our maritime mishap as enjoyable as possible. Here's our warm and cozy family room, a fully-stocked kitchen. We even have indoor plumbing.
(Cut to Ferb doing something familiar.)
Candace: You're giving a monkey a shower?
Ferb: Yep, had to be done.
Candace: Grrrr! Don't you realize I have a very important party to go to?! If you're going to all this trouble, you could have built us a bridge back to town!
Phineas: But Dad didn't ask us to build a bridge.
Candace: Or you could have built us a coconut-powered hovercraft!
Phineas: But Dad didn't ask us to build—
Candace: Or-Or you could have made a gigantic slingshot and shot us back to the mainland!
Phineas: Hey, not bad. (Ferb makes a note of it) Mind if we use that someday?
Candace: (leaves) Oooh, you two are gonna be so busted!
Phineas: Oh, wait. No, Candace! Not that way! That's the— (Candace opens a door that leads to nothing and falls) emergency exit.
(Cut to Candace landing in the mud.)
Phineas: I was trying to tell you, it's not done yet. There's gonna be this whole slide thing that dumps you into the hot tub! We're waiting on some parts!
(Cut to the volcano)
Doofenshmirtz: No, no, Perry the Platypus! (Cut to reveal Perry raveling up a towel.) You put that down right— (He smacks him with it) Ow! Ow, that smarts! (Doofenshmirtz throws his shoe at Perry. Perry jumps as the shoe misses and hits the Monkey Enslave-inator off of the monkey. The monkeys all look angrily at Doofenshmirtz.)
(Cut back to the shelter.)
Phineas: So, Candace, do you want a banana smoothie?
Candace: I got you guys this time! There's no way you could dismantle your stupid tropical dream house before I drag Mom back here to bust you! (Candace walks out.)
Phineas: So... no smoothie then?
(Cut back to the volcano. Perry zips across the clothesline on a hanger, somehow getting into long johns and a tux along the way. He kicks Doofenshmirtz into the wheel.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ow! Ow! Oh! (Doofenshmirtz comes out of the laundry basket dressed as a bride to Perry's groom. Perry lets him have it, but then jumps away.) That's right, run away, Perry the Pla—AAAAAAHHH!! (Doofenshmirtz falls into the giant washing machine. A bunch of monkeys on one side drop clothes into the machine.) Nice try, Perry the Plat— (Another group of monkeys drop in detergent.) Wai-wai-wait, what are you doing? Don't throw the bright colors in with the—Hey that's too much soap! (bulbs as the monkeys push the start button) Curse you, Perry the Pla—I told you no starch!
(The machine begins to bubble up. The monkeys scamper away. Perry jumps onto an ironing board, which folds when surrounded by the bubbles as Perry surfs the bubbles. The monkeys climb their way out. The volcano explodes with the pink bubbles.)
Isabella: Volcano!! (slides down a palm tree) We need to move now! (She grabs Phineas and Ferb as the bubbles take the shelter away with it.)
(Cut to Candace.)
Candace: Wait until Mom and Dad find out!
Phineas: Run, Candace! Pink lava behind you!
Candace: Pink lava?
(Candace screams and runs away as the "pink lava" chases after them, while Perry still surfs on it. Cut to Lawrence repairing the sloop.)
Lawrence: Well, that's it.
Linda: Great job fixing the ship, honey. (Cut to reveal the sloop is still on the rock.) But how are we going to get it back in the water?
Lawrence: Oh, yes, well, um...
Candace: Mom, Dad, we gotta get outta here!
Lawrence: Woo! Hurry up, kids! Women and children first!
(Isabella, Phineas, Ferb, Candace and Linda walk up the ladder into the ship followed by Lawrence. The pink lava pushes the ship off the rock and back into shore.)
Lawrence: Kids, we're headed home!
Linda: You were magnificent, captain!
(Wide shot to reveal Perry water skiing on the ship.)
Candace: (offscreen) Can't we go any faster! Come on, steer this thing! Go go go go go!
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house where Buford and Baljeet are looking at something.)
Baljeet: Oh, Buford. (Buford gives Baljeet a tennis ball and a black marker.) Perhaps this will buy us a little time. Frozen waffle, please. (Buford gives him a frozen waffle with a bite mark out of it.) Ugh.
Buford: Sorry. Got hungry.
Baljeet: Ugh. Maybe they will not know the difference.
(Cut to reveal a hastily made platypus with a pool 2-ball and the tennis ball for eyes, a baseball cap for the head and bill, a sack of flour for the body, and the frozen waffle for the tail.)
Buford: I think it's pretty convincing.
Baljeet: Oh, who am I kidding?! We will have to tell them the truth!
Buford: (runs off) You're on your own, Jeet! I'm outta here!
(Car horn honks.)
Phineas: (offscreen) Hey, Baljeet, we're home!
(Cut to the car with the sloop attached to it. As soon as it stops, Candace bullets her way out.)
Candace: Hold on, Jeremy! I'm coming!
Baljeet: Oh, my friends! (sobs) I hope you can forgive me!
Phineas: Hey, Baljeet, wait till you hear what we did today.
Baljeet: But I have something to tell you first!
Phineas: What is it?
Baljeet: It is—
(Perry walks in and chatters.)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry! Aw, and look at that! (Perry approaches the fake platypus) Baljeet made Perry a little friend. Thanks, Baljeet. I knew we could count on you. (Baljeet faints.)
(Perry looks at his "new friend" and growls angrily.)

End Credits
♪ Carl! ♪
♪ He works a camera! ♪
♪ Carl! ♪
♪ He knows what all those buttons do! ♪
♪ Carl! ♪
♪ He'll clear the paper jam! ♪
♪ Carl! ♪
♪ And he'll pick up the laundry, too. ♪
♪ He knows how to format, spell check and text edit. ♪
♪ He's workin' this job just for college credit! ♪
♪ He's Carl, the intern! ♪
♪ Carl! ♪



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house, while it's raining.)
♪ Na, na, na ♪
Linda: Phineas, Ferb? I'll be over at Vivian's house for a few hours. You kids have fun.
Buford: What kind of fun can we have when it's raining?
Isabella: We could talk about our feelings.
(Pause)
Buford: Okay, I'll rephrase it. What kind of fun can we have when it's raining?
Baljeet: I would not mind talking about my feelings.
Buford: (Punches Baljeet) How do you feel now?
Baljeet: (Whimpers) In pain.
Buford: There, we're done. I guess that was fun.
Off-Screen Voice: How about a game of hide and seek?
Phineas: Who said that?
(View switches to a boy sitting on the couch)
Boy: I did!
Phineas: Who are you?
Boy: Allow me to introduce myself. (Walks over to Phineas and Ferb) I'm Irving. I'm your biggest fan! (Chuckles)
Phineas: How long have you been sitting there?
Irving: A couple hours. My horoscope says I'm a background type. (Raises book entitled "P & F") Check it out. I've kept a scrapbook of your adventures. (Opens book to a picture of Phineas, Ferb and co. on the rollercoaster) This is the time you built that rollercoaster . (Flips page to Phineas and Ferb on a Chariot at Paul Bunyan's Pancake Haus) And this is the time you built those chariots. (Flips to picture of Phineas and Ferb in the kitchen with Irving in the background) And this is when you had that soup .
Baljeet: (Scoffs) Oh, what a nerd.
Phineas: Is that a lock of Ferb's hair?
Irving: (Snatches book back) Don't touch it.
Phineas: Irving suggested hide and seek.
Buford: Isn't the house a little too small to play a good game of hide and seek?
Ferb: Perhaps the problem is not that the house is too small, but that we are too big.
Phineas: He's right! You kids hang tight while Ferb and I use the technology from our submarine adventure to make a new shrinking machine. Ferb, I know what we're going to do today!
(Irving squeals in excitement)
Irving: (reverently) You said the words. Hey, can I say the Perry thing?
Phineas: Wha?
Irving: You know, when you say "Where's Perry?"
Phineas: O...kay.
Irving: Where's Perry? Ah, oh wait, wait, I can do better. Where's Perry? Where is Perry? Wherefore art thou Perry? I wonder where that Perry went.
(Everyone starts backing away from him)
Irving: Oh, where is that platypus? Where the P-man at?

(Scene switches to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Good morning Agent P. We've received some disturbing calls from Doofenshmirtz.
(Recording of Doofenshmirtz's call)
Doofenshmirtz: Hello? Monogram...are you home? If you're home, please pick it up. Pick it up. Hello? Oh, I hate these machines. Okay, listen. I'm being evil and I need Perry the Platypus to come over and stop me. (Beep) Wait-- wait, did I hear a beep? Did the machine just cut me off? Oh-ah-oh I don't know what to do. You know what, I'm just going to call back.
Major Monogram: I want you to find out what he's up to and--
(Beeps; recording starts again)
Doofenshmirtz: Hello? I-- I think your machine cut me off before, what I was saying---
Major Monogram: Find out what Doofenshmirtz is up to and put a stop to it.
(Doofenshmirtz continues rambling in the distance; Major Monogram groans)

(Scene switches back to Phineas and Ferb running over to their friends)
Phineas: Here it is, a shrinking machine. Now, everybody touch the top of the machine.
(Everyone puts their hands on the machine's antenna. Whirring noise as everyone shrinks)
Isabella: Wow! We're really tiny! Phineas, your coffee table is huge!
Buford: (Chuckling) Look at this pencil.
Baljeet: Somebody take a picture of me next to this dust bunny!
(shutter clicks as Ferb jumps on the shutter of the large camera)
Baljeet: Phineas, this is amazing! Everybody should shrink.
Isabella: Get teeny.
Irving: Get tiny.
Phineas: Be small!
(Song: "When You're Small")
♪ When you're small, every sink is a swimming pool ♪
♪ When you're small, a spare button's a base ♪
Phineas: (As Baljeet slides in) Safe!
♪ When you're small, everyone's gonna think you're cool ♪
♪ Cause you're the only one who fits through a grate! ♪
♪ When you're small, a kitchen sponge is a trampoline ♪
♪ When you're small, your dad's comb is a jail ♪
♪ Oh, when you're small every TV's a movie screen ♪
♪ And your goldfish is a great orange whale ♪
♪ You can climb inside a paper airplane ♪
♪ And fly yourself down the hall ♪
♪ Every puddle's a lake, every crumb is a cake ♪
♪ And there's never any reason to crawl ♪
♪ Baby, when you're small! (X2) ♪

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incor--- ♪
(Perry bursts through Doofenshmirtz's door)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Perry the Platypus, you caught me. I've been putting recyclable trash in the regular trash bin; I am so bad! You've taught me a valuable lesson. From now on, I'll be green. I'll be all the shades of green. (places circular device on Perry's back under pretense of patting it as he sees Perry out) They will call me El Verde, and tell my tale in Greenland. Goodbye now, drive safe, and thanks for busting down my door. I deserved it!

Phineas: Alright gang, we can start that game of hide and seek now.
(Ground shakes)
Isabella: What's that?
Baljeet: (Yells) Earthquake!
Phineas: No, it's Candace. Hey, Candace is it! Everybody hide!
Candace: (On the phone) Stacy, the bow is totally cute. It's your signature look. You have the bow, and I have (Pause) some weird metal contraption in the living room. (Runs up to it) Stace, I'll call you back. This thing was obviously made by Phineas and Ferb, so it must do something.
Isabella: (Running with Phineas) Phineas, look, on the umbrella stand!
Phineas: It's Baljeet!
Baljeet: Oh no, she found me. I guess I'm it! (Screams as Candace opens the umbrella catapulting Baljeet to the ceiling, onto the lamp)
Phineas and Isabella: Baljeet?
Baljeet: I'm okay!
(Door shuts as Candace leaves)
Phineas: We gotta get that shrinker back!
Irving: You guys always have a plan.
Phineas: We don't have a plan.
Irving: What?
Phineas: We'll just have to wing it.
Irving: There's no winging, there's no winging in the book. You guys have just been improvising this whole time? (Dramatically) Oh, how heroes fall!
Baljeet: Hey guys! Remember me? Up here with the dead flies?
Phineas: Sit tight, Baljeet! We'll have you down as soon as we can.
Baljeet: How can I sit tight? With that air conditioner up there freezing me! (Teeth chattering) So cold. So cold.

Doofenshmirtz: Activate bug eye-bot. (The bug eye-bot activates) Yes, my little robot eye, find Perry's address for me. That's right, walk towards the front door so I can see the number. Oh, it will be so delicious to know where Perry lives. I can ring his doorbell...and run away! (Laughs maniacally)
(Cut to Candace running to the Garcia-Shapiro household, she knocks on the door)
Candace: (singsong) Hey Mom?! I want to show you something! (normal voice, looks back) Yep, I'm one step ahead of you boys, one step. What the heck is this (presses antenna, shrinks) THIIIIIING! (Gasps) I'm shrunk! (Crashing noise as the shrinking machine falls next to her) Where's the reverse button?
(Door opens)
Vivian: Hello? Hello? I could have sworn I heard someone kno-- (Gasps) Oy. That's not a good place to put a toy.
(Candace screams as she is lifted up with the shrink machine and falls back down)
Candace: Mrs. Garcia-Shapiro! It's me, Candace! Helloooo!? (Screams and falls off ledge, onto the grass) Guess I deserve this for trying to be one step ahe-- (Screams, as she bumps into a growling caterpillar, which is shown to really be harmless after she runs away)

Isabella: Phineas, we've got to get to that machine across the street.
Irving: (Groaning) What's the point? We're vacuum bag filler.
Buford: Thanks for that, Captain Bring-Down.
(Group screams as Doofenshmirtz's bug descends upon them)

Doofenshmirtz: What? Some kiddie TV show? Agh, the signal must have gotten switched. (Presses buttons) Aw, and now I've lost the picture entirely. (Pause) Hm. I hope it doesn't go rogue.

(Mechanical bug makes whirring noises as it malfunctions and staggers about; group runs away)
Phineas: What is that thing? Did we ever make mechanical bugs?
Irving: There's nothing in the book.
Phineas: Okay everyone, split off now!
(Mechanical bug crashes into the leg of the kitchen table, causing a basket of sewing materials to fall down)
(Isabella trips and screams as the bug comes closer to her. Phineas comes swinging in on a thread and needle saving her. He deposits her on the coffee table and she looks on as he lands on the ground)
Phineas: Thread 'em and throw 'em guys!
Buford: Come on, Fanboy, you want to live forever?
Irving: Is that an option?
(Everyone runs and throws their thread across the bug's body. Irving gives a battle cry as he runs, but crashes into the leg of the table, still holding his needle)
Irving: (As Isabella jumps down, pulls out the needle embedded in the table leg, and takes over for him; faintly) I'm okay.
Phineas: Great job, Isabella.
Isabella: Thank you very much.
Buford: (War cry) Yeah! Yeah! (screams. He rips off the bug's robotic eye and holds it above his head before throwing it down to the ground)
Phineas: I couldn't have said it any better myself.

(Candace groans as a rain drop falls on her. Pinky the Chihuahua comes up behind her, growling. Candace runs)
Isabella: That was awesome, Phineas.
Irving: Yeah, but guys? We're still small. What now?
(Ferb is on the bug's head and rearranges some of its wires, causing it to sprout wings)
Phineas: Ferb, you're a genius! Everyone on?
Irving: (Taking a picture) Hey, I don't have to digitally insert myself.
Buford: Go tell it to your blog.
Isabella: Let's get Baljeet.
Isabella and Phineas: Baljeet?
Isabella: Where is he?
Phineas: I don't see him.
Buford: Look over there, something's moving!
(One of the dead flies begins to move, it breaks open as Baljeet appears out of its back, dripping with fly guts)
Everyone but Ferb: Ewww!Baljeet: I did what I had to do to survive!

(Candace is still in the Garcia-Shapiro front yard, being terrorized by Pinky. The gang flies by on the robot bug)
Isabella: Pinky, no! Down! Bad dog. Where are your manners?
(Pinky wanders off)
Phineas: How are you doing there, short stuff?
Candace: Phineas, thank goodness!
(They are flying Candace has joined them on the robot's back)
Candace: Who smells like fly guts?
Baljeet: I had to survive, okay?
(The gang flies into the house through the doggy door and Pinky follows. They land on the island counter in Isabella's kitchen)
Phineas: Come on! Hands on!
(They touch the antenna of the shrinking machine and are return to their normal sizes)
Isabella: All right, Phineas!
Irving: Cool!
Baljeet: Yay, Phineas!
Irving: You did it, Ferb!
(Cut to the living room)
Vivian: Isa, is that you?
Isabella: (offscreen) Yeah, Mom!
(Cut back to the kitchen)
Candace: You guys are so busted! Wait 'til Mom sees this! (runs off) Moooom?!
Irving: (Giggles) She's gonna go get your mom!
Phineas: ...What?

Doofenshmirtz: (Pounding his computer screen) Ohh. Work! Work!
(Perry is awakened by the pounding noise coming from the robot eye, which is still lying on the floor where Buford tossed it, and slips his fedora on)
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Come on. Ooh, hey, random pounding works. Oh good, we're back on the Perry show.
(Perry holds the robot eye up to his own)
Doofenshmirtz: Ahhh! All right, Perry the Platypus, could you just do me a favor and hold this up to the street address in front of-
(Perry crushes the robot eye between his fingers, removes his fedora, and returns to sleep)
(Cut to Isabella's living room)
Candace: Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom! You gotta see something in the kitchen! (grabs her arm and drags her, only to spill her coffee) Come on, come on, come on, come on!
Linda: Okay, Candace.
Doofenshmirtz: You think you're so clever, Perry the Platypus. But for the first time in my life I can actually use a self-destruct button that I have installed! Prepare to be vaporized, Perry the Platypus!
(Doofenshmirtz presses the self-destruct button)
(The flying bug robot and the shrinking machine vaporize just before Candace runs in)
Candace: See, Mom?! See, see?! (Sees nothing on the counter) WHAT?!! But it was right here!!! I swear there was this machine...and we were tiny...but then we got bigger... (rest is under) and, and...
Linda: (with disdain, overlapping) Oh, teenagers.
Vivian: Hormones, all it is.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, that's done. And no comeuppance.
(Pause. A sad violin plays in the background)
Why do I feel so empty?



(Scene opens up showing Phineas and Ferb on a ship.)
Phineas: Now this is a ship. My, she's yar. Is she ready to sail?
Ferb: She's shipshape in Bristol fashion.
Phineas: What does that mean?
Ferb: What does "yar" mean?
Baljeet: Phineas! Ferb! I need your help!
Phineas: (As he and Ferb pulley themselves down to ground level) Hey, Baljeet. I thought your friend Mishti was visiting from India.
Baljeet: She is. But- she is different now.
Phineas: Different how? Did she turn into a werewolf or something?
Baljeet: No, she is- a girl!
Phineas: She was probably a girl the whole time.
Baljeet: Let me explain. Four years ago, back in India, we used to have such a good time together.
(Flashback to Mishti and Baljeet on a muddy soccer field in India)
Young Mishti: Give it to me!
Young Baljeet: No, no, no! Me! Give it to me!
Young Mishti: No, me, me! (Baljeet shoves her out of the way. She promptly does the same thing to him.) I'm open!
(Baljeet runs at her; she grabs his hands, spins him around, and throws him off-screen in the other direction. Mishti falls over from the effort. He returns wearing a traffic cone on his head, jumping in the mud puddle and getting it all over Mishti. She fills the traffic cone full of mud and places it back on Baljeet's head, laughing. Flashback ends)
Phineas: And she never ever showed any kind of sign of werewolfism at all?
Baljeet: If we could just stick to the topic, please. Five minutes and forty-eight seconds ago, back in my home...
(Flashback to Baljeet brushing his teeth in his meticulous bathroom)
Baljeet's mother: (offscreen) Baljeet! The Patels are here!
Baljeet: Coming! Misht-aah...!
(Mishti is much older-looking and flirtatious)
Mishti: Hi, Baljeet!
(Baljeet slams the bathroom door and begins to hyperventilate. Flashback ends)
Baljeet: So after hiding in the bathroom, I jumped out the window and came over here as quickly as possible. I do not even know how to act in front of a girl! I do not even know what girls like.
Phineas: Hm. Isn't it like "sugar and spice, and everything nice"?
Baljeet: That is what they are made of. I do not want to build one. Duh!
Phineas: Y'know, I think what girls really like is romance.
Baljeet: Romance?
Phineas: Yeah, we learned all about it in this movie we watched last night. Dinner, music, candlelight, and all on a romantic cruise over the ocean blue. Lucky for you, we happen to have a ship right here. Ferb, cancel the giant bottle. I know what we're going to do today. Hey, where's Perry?

(At O.W.C.A., Major Monogram and Carl are playing a rythm game. Major Monogram is on guitar, but he isn't doing very well, and Carl plays drums)
Carl: Uh, you're gonna have to pick it up a little, sir. They're starting to boo.
Major Monogram: I've gotta hear, Carl. (A machine starts beeping nearby, signaling Perry's arrival) Oh, he's here!
(Now on screen in Perry's lair) Agent P, sorry about the delay. Doofenshmirtz is at it again, he's been frequenting hobby shops and well, Carl's worried sick. Aren't you, Carl?
Carl: Well, not really sick, sir, I am a little concerned.
Major Monogram: (Overlapping him) What did I say about contradicting me in front of the agents?
Carl: Sorry, sir.
(A beat as Perry and Major Monogram stare at each other)
Major Monogram: So, that's pretty much it. You can go, Agent P.
(Perry gets up from his chair and leaves. Major Monogram watches him go)
Major Monogram: That's it. Okay, Carl. (Sounds of rock band)

(Baljeet walks up his own front sidewalk and rings his doorbell, wearing a bow tie and holding flowers. His mother answers the door)
Baljeet's Mother: Baljeet? Aren't you in the bathroom?
Baljeet: I climbed out the window.
Baljeet's Mother: Oh, I thought it was a...
Baljeet: Mother, please! May I just speak to Mishti?
(She leaves, and Mishti comes to the door)
Mishti: Hey, Baljeet. What's up?
Baljeet: (Clears throat) Um... If you do not already have plans for this upcoming afternoon...
Mishti: Actually, I had plans with you.
Baljeet: Oh, okay! Well, if you are busy...
Mishti: Oh, no, Baljeet! What did you have in mind?
Baljeet: Well, some friends of mine have planned... (pulls out brochure and reads it to her) "an all-inclusive luxury cruise around Danville Harbor".
Mishti: A boat ride? Cool! I will go get my stuff.
Baljeet: (Still reading the brochure) "Highlights of the evening will include a romantic candlelit dinner with-"... oh, she is gone.
(Back at the Flynn-Fletcher residence, Candace is talking on the phone with Stacy in her room)
Candace: I just wish Jeremy was more romantic. You know, like Romeo-and-Juliet romantic, but without all the dying.
(The boat "sails" by the window)
Phineas: Ahoy, Candace!
Candace: Yeah, Stacy, I'm gonna have to call you back. (Pushes another number on speed dial)Hey, Mom.
Linda: (Wearing a salad bowl attached to a pipe on her head, an unknown whirring noise emanating from it) Candace, make it quick. I'm in the middle of something.
Candace: (leaning out her window to see the ship) Phineas and Ferb are leaving on a cruise ship- but I don't even know where they're going!
Linda: (As the whirring noise gets louder) I can hardly hear you. What's this about a ship? Are you at the harbor?
Candace: No, I'm at home! Wait, the harbor! That's where they're going! I'll bust them there.
Lawrence: (As he stops blowing into the pipe attached to the salad bowl on Linda's head, revealing him as the source of the whirring noise) Was that Candace on the phone?
Linda: Yeah. She probably doesn't know we're in the living room.
Lawrence: So, what do you think? (Starts blowing into the pipe again)
Linda: (After a beat) You know, you're right. It does kind of sound like the ocean.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
(Perry sneaks over to Doofenshmirtz's apartment door, leaning up against it. It flips over, landing him inside Doofenshmirtz's apartment, and ties him up with a rope)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus. You like my scale model? (Gestures to a cardboard model he has made of Danville) I even put my own little building in there, look. Look, there it is! (points at the building) Ah, yes, my home. I can still remember the day I bought it. Flashback!
(And indeed it does. Flashback to Doofenshmirtz and a seedy-looking, extremely short real estate agent proudly gesturing at homes he is selling.)
My real estate agent had already shown me hundreds of other places within my budget... (These places include a rotting old cabin, a rotting old mobile home, and a port-a-potty) ...but none of them were acceptable. (A man walks out of the port-a-potty as the real estate agent opens the door for Doofenshmirtz to look inside. Doofenshmirtz face palms) That was until he showed me this magnificent building, with a view all the way to the ocean! (Doofenshmirtz delightfully looks at the ocean view from his balcony) But the first night I realized why the price was so cheap. All night long, foghorns from passing ships would sound. I couldn't understand why all these ships were there... (Doofenshmirtz stands at his window, staring at the ocean full of ships) ...until one day, I turned my neck to the right about forty-five degrees, and there, I saw it. The Danville Lighthouse! It was attracting the ships like moths to a flame.
(Flashback ends)
So, what I am going to do is move the light house all the way over here, to the other side of town! (moves his cardboard lighthouse to the other side of the scale model) The boats will follow it, like moths following a...have I already used that, uh...that metaphor? I think I...oh, how about bees going to...whatever bees go to, or flies to...oh, let's just go with the moth thing.

(The ship is in Danville Harbor. Baljeet and Mishti have already boarded and are standing on the deck)
Baljeet: For your safety, Mishti, I invite you to hold on to the rail. It appears to be very clean, which I know is important to you now that you are a girl.
Mishti: Huh?
Phineas: (Waving) Hey, Isabella. What'cha doooin'?
(Isabella, Gretchen, Adyson, Holly and Ginger are standing near the ship)
Isabella: The Fireside Girls and I just got our Shrimp Net Repair Patches. What are you doing?
Phineas: A romantic cruise. You wanna come?
Isabella: (Gasps in delight) You want me to come on a romantic cruise with you?!
Phineas: (oblivious) Yeah, it'll be fun.
Isabella: (a little nervously) Um...okay.
(She and the Fireside Girls giggle and squeal in excitement)
(Song: "Boat of Romance")
♪ Romance ♪
♪ It's not in the air ♪
♪ It's not on the breeze ♪
♪ And it's not in the trees ♪
♪ And it's not in your hair ♪
♪ It's on the water, ♪
♪ So I'll warn you well in advance ♪
♪ If you're not looking for love ♪
♪ Don't set foot on our Boat of Romance ♪
♪ (On our Boat of Romance!) ♪
♪ On our Boat of Romance! ♪
(Candace watches the Boat of Romance sail away from the harbor)
Candace: I knew it! Time to call Mom. (Dials her phone, then tries to yell into it, but a seagull squawks at the same time, scaring her)
Linda: (As another unknown whirring noise is occurring in the background) Candace? I can't understand a word you're saying.
(Candace screams and runs as a legion of seagulls attacks her.)
Linda: Candace, if you're feeding the geese again, I hope you're not wearing a tube top. (Hangs up, then looks at her husband, who is once again the source of the whirring noise) Do you mind?
(He has been wearing the salad bowl and whipping the pipe around like a helicopter blade.)
Lawrence: Now it sounds like a spaceship.
Linda: Okay, let me try.
(Candace is still at the harbor, having managed to lose the seagulls)
Candace: Well, they've gotta come back sometime, and when they do, I'll be standing right here ready to bust them. (Three seagulls land on her head and shoulders, imitating her on the lookout. She shakes her arms to shoo them away) Would you get off of me?
(Song: "Boat of Romance" (instrumental))
(Phineas and Isabella are standing on the deck of the Boat of Romance, watching the sunset.)
Isabella: (romatically) Wow, Phineas! This is so romantic!
Phineas: (oblivious) You think this is romantic? Wait 'til you see what else I have planned. (Isabella blushes, and he takes her hand. He leads her inside the ship.)
Isabella: (At the camera) Yes!
(Inside, there is a huge golden ballroom, complete with enormous chandelier, with one table set for two.)
Phineas: Behold: a romantic candlelit dinner for two.
Isabella: Oh, Phineas!
Phineas: Ferb, show the happy couple to their table.
(Record scratch as Isabella realizes that this is not for her and Phineas, but Baljeet and Mishti. Her expression immediately sours. Baljeet and Mishti walk over to the table, led by Ferb)
Baljeet: Here is our table, Mishti. Is this okay with you? It is not too drafty, is it?
Mishti: It will be fine, Baljeet.
Phineas: Cue music! (At Isabella) Classical music. Very romantic.
(A full orchestra, including cymbals, performs the overture from Le nozze di Figaro very loudly right next to the table. For each cue, Isabella's expression sours more.)
Phineas: Cue rose petals!
(Ferb dumps several hundred pounds of rose petals on the table, coating it, Baljeet and Mishti, and the orchestra with them.)
Phineas: Cue...'pid!
(Buford is lowered down on a rope, dressed in the traditional wings, bow and arrow, and diaper.)
Buford: Hey, everyone. I'm wearing a diaper.
Phineas: (At Isabella, who is obviously not buying it) So...do I know romance, or what?
Isabella: (Completely deadpan) What.
Phineas: (Oblivious) I said, do I know romance, or --
Isabella: I heard you.
(At the table, still surrounded by rose petals, Baljeet and Mishti enjoy a dinner of spaghetti, meatballs, and lemonade)
Baljeet: This food is really good, do you not think so?
Mishti: Uh, yes...I guess so.
Baljeet: Subtle, yet pungent.
Mishti: Yes, very.
Buford: (Still hanging on the rope above the table) Hey, can you pass me one of those bad boys?
Mishti: Uh...look, Baljeet, I appreciate all this, but, uh...I just want to hang out, like we used to.
Baljeet: But, uh, are you sure you do not want to hear more music?
Buford: Did somebody say music? (Begins to sing) Ohhh-- (The rope snaps and he falls, crushing the table)

(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
Doofenshmirtz: I've attached rockets to the lighthouse, so when I push this button, it will fly to the other side of town, the ships will follow, and then I can finally get some sleep!
(He pushes the button, and the lighthouse takes off. It flies madly around Danville Harbor, and the ships follow it as quickly as possible.) 
Well, I suppose I should've put some sort of steering mechanism on it, but, um, live and learn.
(Perry walks over to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? How did you escape?
(Perry beckons to him)
Doofenshmirtz: (As he bends down) What's that? (Perry punches him in the nose) Ooh! I guess I walked into that one. (He falls backwards, right onto his scale model of Danville, destroying it) Aw, man, I worked all weekend on that!
(Flashback of him gluing the buildings to the table)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, look, this staple makes a perfect little chimney. I hope Perry the Platypus appreciates all this hard work.
Vanessa: (As she walks by in the background) He won't.
Doofenshmirtz: I know!
(Flashback ends)
Doofenshmirtz: You know what, Perry the Platypus? I think it's time for you to go.
(Perry looks surprised)
Doofenshmirtz: That's right, go on! Your services are no longer required. The lighthouse is gone, and there's nothing you can do about it. So you might as well run back to Major Monogram and tell him you lost this one.
(An awkward silence as Perry uncertainly steps toward the door, looks back at Doofenshmirtz, then looks back at the door. Finally, he leaves.)
♪ Perry! ♪

(Back on the deck of the Boat of Romance, the evening has taken a turn for the worse. Mishti is clearly bored)
Baljeet: Did I... Mention how nice the weather is?
Mishti: (Sighs) Several times.
Baljeet: Well... It is nice.
(Phineas is talking to Isabella, mystified as to why nobody likes the Boat of Romance)
Phineas: I don't get it. We've tried everything in that romantic movie but nothing seems to work. The orchestra, the petals, the love song. The only other thing they did in that movie is sink the ship.
(The lighthouse, still flying uncontrollably, goes straight through the hull of the ship. The boats following it sail right through the hole)
Phineas: That ought to do it.
(The boat begins to sink, Titanic-style. Everyone goes to the aft of the boat, as it is higher up than the fore. Baljeet drags Mishti with him)
Baljeet: I must apologize, the ship sinking was not in the brochure.
Phineas: Wow. Is this romance or what?
Isabella: Phineas, where are the life preservers?
Phineas: We don't have any!
Isabella: What?!
Phineas: We've got "Fun Preservers"! Hit it, Ferb.
(Ferb pushes a button on a remote. The aft of the ship, where everyone is now standing, raises up and levels out at about 50 feet in the air)
Buford: Well, that's the end of this diaper.
(A huge plastic slide emerges from it, rolling out down the smokestacks and into the ocean. It fills up with water to become a water slide)
Phineas: Okay, everybody, to the Fun Preservers!
(Inner tubes, in rows of four, emerge above the slide)
Buford: Oh, oh! Cupids first!
(Buford jumps onto one of the Fun Preservers, sliding down the slide. Other kids follow, including Phineas, who offers to share his Fun Preserver with Isabella. She hesitantly accepts. Baljeet and Mishti also share a Fun Preserver)
(Song: "Gotta Make Summer Last")
♪ Summer, I love summer ♪
♪ Give me that summer time ♪
♪ Summer, every 86,400 seconds that pass... ♪
♪ Gotta make summer last! ♪
Baljeet: So you are telling me that even though you are now a girl, you still like to have fun just like in the old days?
Mishti: Of course, Baljeet.
Baljeet: Then you would not mind if I went like...this? (splashes water on her face)
Mishti: Not if you do not mind if I go like...this! (shoves him off of the Fun Preserver)
(They laugh, and he pulls her out of the Fun Preserver too. They both resurface in the Fun Preserver again, still laughing)
(As the Fun Preservers wash up on the beach, Phineas helps Isabella up.)
Phineas: Hey, this romance stuff was fun. We should do it more often.
Isabella: Yes. Yes, we should.
(Perry washes up in a Fun Preserver of his own)
Phineas: Hey, there you are, Perry.
(Candace storms over to Phineas and Isabella. Ferb joins them as well)
Candace: All right, you guys better tell me what you were up to on that cruise ship.
Phineas: Just whipping up a little romance for Baljeet and his friend, Mishti.
Candace: You created romance?
Phineas: Yeah.
Candace: And...did it work?
Phineas: Looks like it. They seem to be having a great time.
(Camera pans over to Baljeet and Mishti, who are watching the sunset together. A beat.)
Candace: Do you think you could do that for me and Jeremy?
Phineas: I don't see why not.
(Unfortunately for Jeremy and Candace, only the failed dinner portion of the Boat of Romance is recreated, with the same orchestra, rose petals, and Buford as Cupid)
Jeremy: Candace, I love having some kid's feet in my face as much as the next guy. But how about we just go grab a Slushy Burger?

End Credits
(Scene shows Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc. at night)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
Singer: ♪ After hours... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (In his pajamas) Ah, finally, a good night's sleep. (Shuts his eyes. Crashes are heard in the background)
Doofenshmirtz: (Opens his eyes) Hmm?
(Outside Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc., ships, sailboats and motorboats surround the building, as well as the Danville Lighthouse caught through the building, as the lighthouse billows smoke from the bottom. Ship horns are also heard)
Doofenshmirtz: (With his eyes closed) Curse you, Perry the Platypus!



(Scene begins showing the town. Someone is wailing in the distance. Cut to the backyard, Phineas dislikes it so much that his face cringes up.)
Phineas: Okay, what the heck is that sound? Come on, Ferb, I know what we're not gonna do today. We're not gonna figure out what we are gonna do today as long as that noise keeps up! (he, Ferb, and Perry leave)
Candace: (slams open her window) If you don't stop that racket, I am so gonna bust you... empty... backyard?
(The wailing stops.)
Stacy: (closes window) Candace, stop trying to bust your backyard.
(Candace's cell phone rings)
Candace: (rushingly picks up her cell phone) Jeremy! Yes? Yes! We'll see you in a bit. Thanks. No, you get off the phone- (phone disconnects) Hello?
Stacy: So, what's the scoop?
Candace: Jeremy just invited us to his friend's concert!
Stacy: Oh, I don't know... Lately I've been feeling like a third wheel around you guys.
Candace: What? No. I always saw it more like Jeremy and I were two wheels, and you were separate, on a unicycle all ♪ "Doo-doo doo-doo-doo-doo-doo doo-doo-doo..." ♪ Wait a minute! I just thought of something. Jeremy's never given me a nickname! (gets a chart with Jeremy's faces from under her bed) I refer you to... The Chart. (points at the chart)
Stacy: Oh, goody. The Chart.
Candace: See, Jeremy only calls me "Candace," and nothing else. When a guy makes you his girlfriend, he comes up with a nickname for you. A pet name like, "baby," "honey," "Peg-Leg Pete!" His own personal stamp!
Stacy: Maybe you should just let whatever happens happen. You know, naturally.
Candace: (scoffs) Naturally? (the wail starts again.) Where is that coming from?
(cur to Baljeet's house)
Phineas: Baljeet's house? For such a mild-mannered kid, we wind up here for a lot of weird reasons. (Ferb is shown with fingers in his ears.) Ah, I wish I had some earplugs. (Ferb holds up a dual earplug shaped like fingers.) Thanks dude! (cut to Baljeet's room, where he is holding a guitar and facing the wall.) So, uh... What up 'jeet?
Baljeet: Oh, uh... Hello my friends, I did not hear you come in.
Phineas: Is everything okay?
Baljeet: If by okay, you mean that my life is a meaningless, black cauldron of swirling failure... then yes, everything is groovy.
(Ferb puts his earplugs back in.)
Phineas: That's not at all what I meant by "okay."
Baljeet: I signed up for a class called "Summer Rocks," believing it was a geology course. It turned out to be a rock-and-roll camp, and no matter how hard I study, I just do not rock! I could actually get an e- (tries to say "F") an- Oh, I cannot even say that terrible letter. ineas! erb! What am I going to do?
Phineas: Well, that was an interesting sound you were getting out of your guitar. I think you'll be just fine!
Baljeet: That was not my guitar. That was me. I call it "The Fail Wail." (begins wailing again)
Phineas: Baljeet. Baljeet! Whoa! Hey! (Baljeet stops wailing.) Thank you. We can show you how to rock!
Baljeet: Really?
Phineas: Absolutely. Hey, I think the Fail Wail scared Perry off!
(cut to Perry entering his lair through a tube; he comes out next to an usher.)
Usher: Ticket, please. (Perry hands him a ticket) Right this way! (guides Perry to his chair) Enjoy the show.
(Perry's screen shows a black-and-white film, set to ominous music, with close-ups of ticking clocks and outdoor settings before finishing with a shot of Major Monogram crying.)
Major Monogram: Evil... wait... You... await... Evil... awaits...
Carl: (offscreen) Cut, cut!
Major Monogram: Oh, come on! (to Perry) Sorry, Agent P. Carl's been taking some film classes and now believes I'm stifling his creativity as my cameraman.
Carl: (pats Monogram with a makeup sponge) Camera artist.
Major Monogram: Seems Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been buying baby supplies all over town. One could only imagine what he's doing. Two can discuss it between themselves; more than two is frankly a waste of our resources. Good luck, Agent P! (Perry leaves)
Carl: Okay, once more with feeling!
Major Monogram: The agency isn't paying for these classes, are they Carl?
(back at Baljeet's house)
Baljeet: I have read every book on the history of rock music.
Phineas: Gosh, Baljeet, rock and roll isn't about books! It's about letting go and having fun! Rock and roll is a way for you to tell the world how you feel!
Baljeet: Feel about what?
Phineas: Expressing yourself! I mean, what do you do when you're angry?
Baljeet: Math.
Phineas: ...Okay, well, what about when you're sad?
Baljeet: Math!
Phineas: Happy?
Baljeet: Ma-ath!
Phineas: So every feeling you have makes you want to do math?
Baljeet: I do not know if it is so much cause and effect. I do a lot of math! The feelings come and go.
(at the Summer Rocks stage)
Stacy: What kind of concert is this?
Candace: It's the "Summer Rocks" graduation concert. Jeremy's friend Coltrane is an instructor. (spots Jeremy and Coltrane talking) Look, there they are!
Stacy: That's Coltrane. He's really cute!
Candace: Hmm, I guess he is. Hey, wait a minute... You like Coltrane!
Stacy: Well, I've never actually talked to him before, but...
Candace: Quick, what should we do? Hide? No, wait, pretend you're a talent scout. Ooh, here! I think I have a fake mustache on me!
Stacy: Let's just go over and say hi. (leads Candace over to the two boys, who are talking)
Jeremy: (to Coltrane) What do you think it means when a girl leaves a fake mustache at your house?
Candace: (walking up with Stacy) Hi guys!
Jeremy: Hey gals!
Candace: Ha! "Gals." Yeah, that's me, "the gal." Gosh, when did you start calling me that?
Stacy: (to Coltrane) Hi, I'm Stacy.
Coltrane: Hey, how ya doin', Stacy? I'm Coltrane.
Stacy: I like your hair.
Coltrane: Thanks. I like your bow. Let me show you round.
Stacy: Cool! (the two of them leave)
Jeremy: Heeey, Coltrane and Stacyyyy... that was easy. (Candace glares at him) What?
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry emerges from a teddy bear and an alarm goes off. The Nanny-inator enters, grabs Perry, powders and diapers him, and drops him in a playpen)
Doofenshmirtz: Awww, congratulations, it's a platypus! (laughs) What do you think of my new Nanny-inator? Nice, huh? (pushes a rocking chair up to the playpen) You know what time it is? Evil story time! (sits down) See, I wrote my new evil scheme (holds up a book titled "My Evil Plan") in pop-up book format. Once upon a time, yesterday, like a quarter to six, (opens book to page of Doofenshmirtz sitting in front of a TV) I was watching a nature documentary, and I learned how before a baby's born, its constant companion is the soothing, steady beat of its mother's heart. Even after it's born, the sound of the mother's heartbeat (turns page to a happy mother holding a baby) continues to be a safe, calming beacon to a growing child, (turns page to an annoyed mother holding a grown man) in some cases up until their early thirties. Suddenly, I was struck with a brilliant idea: (turns page to a skyline with Doofenshmirtz's heart making a loud "BUM BUM BUM" sound) to project the sound of my own heartbeat across the city, causing all the babies to believe that I am their leader! Like the Pied Piper, except... with babies, (turns page to Doofenshmirtz leading a baby army) I will have a mighty baby army, a-and no one would fight back, 'cause, you know... they're babies! (turns page to Doofenshmirtz reading to Perry with the Nanny-inator and Bum-Bum-inator, a giant heart, behind him) Finally, the time came for me to tell you my evil plan in pop-up book form, and I- Oh, I- I'm sorry, the- the book seems to have caught up to us in real time, heh-heh. Anyway, behold! The Bum-Bum-inator!
(back at Baljeet's house)
Phineas: Rock's not about getting good grades and following the rules; it's about rebellion! It's about using music to express your true feelings and emotions! Just play how you feel! (Baljeet plays a single chord) Baljeet, that's- that's just an A chord.
Baljeet: I feel like I want an A!
Phineas: This is gonna be harder than we thought.
(at the Summer Rocks stage: Stacy and Coltrane are sitting at a picnic table, and Coltrane is playing bass)
Stacy: Do you think you could teach me how to play the bass?
Coltrane: Let's see if you have big bass player hands. (they hold up hands to compare sizes)
Candace: (from a bush, trying to imitate a bird) Bu-GA! Bu-GA! Ooka-ooka-ooka-ooka!
Stacy: Uh, excuse me for a second. (Candace repeats her "bird call") I have to go talk to my friend in the bushes.
Coltrane: Cool! I gotta go get this show started. Save me a dance?
Candace: (still in the bush, still making her "bird call") Koo-koo-koo-koo-kooooo! Ki-KA! Ki-KA! (Stacy walks up to her) Ooka-ooka-ooka-ooka! Eega-eega-eega!
Stacy: What are you doin'?
Candace: How's it going with you and Coltrane?
Stacy: I think it's going really well! He asked me to save him a dance!
Candace: He did? What do you think he meant by that?
Stacy: I'm pretty sure he meant he wants to dance with me.
Candace: Hmmm. Men and their impossible endless riddles!
Stacy: So how's it going with you? Has Jeremy nicknamed you yet?
Candace: No...
Stacy: Maybe Jeremy just isn't the kind of guy who nicknames people.
Candace: Huh. You could be right.
Stacy: Look, here he comes now!
Jeremy: (greeting people as he passes them) Yo, T-Bone! Hey, Clammo! What up, Sassy Miss K? Momo! Binkie... (reaches Stacy and Candace) Hi Candace, where you been?
Stacy: I'll, uh... I'll see you later.
Jeremy: Catch ya later, Staceroo. (Candace glares at him again) What?
(Cut to the start of the concert. A bicycle-driven limo pulls up to the concert and driver Ferb opens the door; Phineas, Buford, Baljeet, and Ferb emerge, and the limo pulls away, to Ferb's bewilderment. Baljeet watches the opening performer, Django, playing violin on stage)
Baljeet: Ohhhh, I do not know about this!
Phineas: You'll be great! Just remember what we practiced: follow the beat and let your feelings out through the music!
Baljeet: I am about to let my feelings out through these pleather pants!
(back at D. E. I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, I'm almost ready, Perry the Platypus. (pointing to a heart monitor on his wrist) This monitor takes my pulse and transmits it to the Bum-Bum-inator, which will then broadcast my heartbeat to all the babies in the Tri-State Area. See? (the Bum-Bum-inator begins beating.) You might say I'm wearing my sleeve on my... I- I mean my heart is wearing, uh... Never mind, whatever, you get it! Ah-ha-HA-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!! (raises the Bum-Bum-inator through the roof, broadcasting the heartbeat)
(at the Summer Rocks stage)
Coltrane: And now, the band you've all been waiting for: The Baljeatles!
Phineas: (hears the heartbeat and mistakes it for a drumbeat) Hey, cool beat, Buford.
Buford: Uh... thanks? (Begins mimicking the beat; Phineas and Ferb start playing as well. Baljeet peeks around the curtain from backstage.)
Coltrane: What's up, Baljeet? Your band is waiting for you onstage.
Baljeet: I can't do it! I just do not know how to rock! I know I am going to get a bad grade!
Coltrane: Wait, what are you talking about, "grades"? This is Summer Rocks! There are no grades.
Baljeet: No grades? Oh, so it is pass/fail?
Coltrane: No! We use a free-floating curriculum to encourage kids to just... rock out and have fun!
Baljeet: (outraged) I do not believe this! I wasted all this time in a class without grades?!? Aohhhhh! If only there were some other kind of outlet for me to express these feelings to my like-minded peer group! (comes to a realization) Pardon me! I want to try something!
(Song: "Gimme a Grade")
Baljeet: Oh yeah! I have got something to say!
♪ I have been burned by vague lesson plans and a free-floating curriculum! ♪
♪ I like my rules, baby, etched in stone, 'cause you know I am going to stick to them! ♪
Baljeet and Phineas: ♪ Can I get a syllabus, a little discipline? Judge me on a scale from A to F! ♪
Baljeet: ♪ You wasted all my time learning how to rhyme, then left me hangin' from a treble clef! ♪
Baljeet: ♪ Somebody gimme a grade! ♪
Phineas and Ferb: ♪ (Somebody gimme a grade, somebody gimme a grade!) ♪
Baljeet: ♪ I need the man keeping me down! ♪
♪ Somebody gimme a grade! ♪
Phineas and Ferb: ♪ (Somebody gimme a grade, somebody gimme a grade!) ♪
Baljeet: ♪ Is there a red pen in this town? ♪
♪ Somebody gimme a grade! ♪
Phineas and Ferb: ♪ (Somebody gimme a grade, somebody gimme a grade!) ♪
Baljeet: ♪ I already said it, I need some extra credit today! ♪
Phineas and Ferb: ♪ (Somebody gimme a grade, somebody gimme a grade!) ♪
Baljeet: ♪ And make it an A! ♪
(at D. E. I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, now to relax and keep my heart rate slow and steady, you know, 'cause too much excitement would cause my heart to beat too fast and short out the Bum-Bum-inator.
(Perry squirts milk from a baby bottle into his diaper, setting off the alarm and summoning the Nanny-inator)
Nanny-inator: Change time! Change time! (Perry jumps on the Nanny-inator's arm when it reaches for him, climbs out of the cage while the Nanny-inator accidentally breaks itself, and tackles Doofenshmirtz, who grunts while his heart rate rises, causing the music to speed up as well. Perry chases Doofenshmirtz around the room.)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, stop chasing me; I'm supposed to keep my heart rate down!
(back to Summer Rocks)
Baljeet: Oh, I am so upset!
♪ I am stone cold, honor roll, ♪
♪ I won't be told how to vent! ♪
Phineas, Ferb and Baljeet: ♪ I won't cry or sigh, I'm here to testify, ♪
♪ Up with the establishment! ♪
Baljeet: ♪ My parents understand me, put conformity inside of me which I can help the system out! ♪
♪ I ain't gonna waste my summer taking beatings from my drummer, ♪
♪ Put a mic in front of me and I'll shout! ♪
♪ Gimme a grade! ♪
Phineas and Ferb: ♪ (Somebody gimme a grade, somebody gimme a grade!) ♪
Baljeet: ♪ You know I'm gonna wreck the curve! ♪
Somebody gimme a grade!
Phineas and Ferb: ♪ (Somebody give me a grade, somebody give me a grade!) ♪
Baljeet: ♪ The only letter I deserve! ♪
♪ Somebody gimme a grade! ♪
Phineas and Ferb: ♪ (Somebody gimme a grade, somebody gimme a grade!) ♪
Baljeet: ♪ This isn't a request, I demand there be a test today! ♪
Phineas and Ferb: ♪ (Somebody gimme a grade, somebody gimme a grade!) ♪
Baljeet: ♪ Gimme a grade! ♪
(as the final instrumental section of the song commences, Perry continues to chase Doofenshmirtz, who looks at his heart rate monitor)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh oh. Not good. (the Bum-Bum-inator shorts out and flies across the sky, yanking Doofenshmirtz along with it) CURSE YOU, PERRY THE- (passes over the Summer Rocks stage) Wait, is that the Baljeatles?
(the Bum-Bum-inator explodes into fireworks, the song concludes, and Candace falls into Jeremy's arms while dancing)
Candace: Just call me "Can't-Dance Flynn."
Jeremy: (laughs) Okay, that's your new nickname.
Candace: Wait, what? No! I'm not supposed to nickname myself! You're supposed to come up with it! (starts crying) You don't even care enough to try!
Jeremy: Hey, wait a second! I call you Candace, but not because I don't care enough to come up with a cute nickname for you! I call you Candace 'cause... I happen to really like that name.
Candace: You do?
Jeremy: Of course I do! 'Cause it's your name. (they hug)
Stacy: (standing next to Coltrane) That was easy. (they look down and see that they're holding hands, then smile at each other)
(on stage)
Phineas: Well, Baljeet, if it means anything, I'd give you an A+ in rock.
Baljeet: No. That means almost nothing.



(Scene opens up showing Vanessa and Dr. Doofenshmirtz riding on a scooter.)
Vanessa: Dad, I need a car. I can't keep riding on the back of your scooter every time I go someplace. It's totally embarrassing.
Biker: Hey, sweetheart. How'd you like to take a ride on a real bike?
Doofenshmirtz: She's sixteen!
(Doofenshmirtz zaps him with his helmet. The biker is zapped into another dimension where a giant baby alien is in a crib.)
Baby alien: (giggles) Oh, yeah!
(The alien hits the biker with his rubber hammer.)
Doofenshmirtz: You know, ever since I installed the Away-inator on my helmet, driving is fun again!
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletchers and Stacy in a car)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb, check this out. (looking at a map) The Super-Duper Megastore is the largest supplier of everything in the Tri-State Area. Heh. I know what we're gonna do today!
Candace: Well, I'm gonna buy Jeremy a gift. It's the anniversary of the very first time Jeremy and I went to Slushy Burger. He spilled a cheese dog on me and mustard got all over the place. He was so sweet.
Stacy: Hmm. Tough one. I don't think they make a card for that.
(Doofenshmirtz's scooter catches up with the Flynn-Fletcher car. Ferb notices Vanessa and opens his window. As he looks at her, flowers float by and music plays as he watches with his mouth slightly open before she drives away.)
Phineas: So Mom, what are you gonna get at the store?
Linda: I need a 25 pound tub of mayonnaise and 80 pounds of potatoes to make potato salad for the bridge club.
Phineas: (Puts away his map) Wow. That's a lot of potato salad.
Linda: (Parks the car) Remember to meet me back at the car in three hours. (Everyone leaves the car)
(Inside the superstore)
Phineas: Wow, think of it, Ferb. Fifty-two million, six-hundred thirty-seven thousand square acres of unbridled consumerism all under one roof.
Ferb: (Wolf whistles)
Phineas: You can whistle that again.
Ferb: (Wolf whistles)
Linda: (While walking him to the Park Your Pooch department on a leash) And you get to go to the pet-sitter's, Perry.
(Perry chatters)
(Outside the superstore)
Doofenshmirtz: (takes off his helmet) If you want a car, (Vanessa takes off her helmet) you're going to have to prove to me that you're responsible, that you can do things by yourself.
Vanessa: How could I do that when I'm always on the back of your scooter?
Doofenshmirtz: (Walks into the superstore) It's a conundrum, isn't it?
(Back inside the superstore, one of the dogs drops a bone which is an OWCA communication device)
Major Monogram: (talking from a screen set into the bone) Psst. Agent P. Agent P. (Perry puts on his fedora) Down here. (Camera zooms into the bone) It's the new dog bone communicator. Pretty clever, huh?
Carl: I thought of it, Agent P.
Major Monogram: Carl, I'm trying to use the bone. (to Perry) Anyway, Agent P, we've learned that Dr. Doofenshmirtz is shopping for parts to build another one of his outlandish devices. Put a tail on him.
(Perry climbs on the backs of three dogs to jump over the wall and emerges into the clothing department. He notices Phineas and Ferb coming; runs to get some pants, a shirt, brown shoes, and some glasses; and runs into the fitting room. He comes out looking like the guy standing by the fitting room)
("Fabulous" instrumental)
Man: You look fabulous!
Vanessa: So I've got to find some way to prove to you I'm responsible. There must be an easier way to earn a car.
Doofenshmirtz: You know what they say about taking the easy way.
Vanessa: What do they say?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, I could tell you, but that would be taking the easy way, and you know what they say about that. Ooh, look! Pizzazium Infinionite!
Vanessa: What's that?
(Doofenshmirtz plays an old film about it on the nearby projector)
Film Speaker: You've heard of hydrogen. You may know boron. But of all the elements on the periodic table, none is more fascinating and less abundant than Pizzazium Infinionite. Pizzazium Infinionite was first discovered by fortune hunters fifty years ago in the year 1894. No one is really sure what it does, but look to the future for hover vehicles powered by Pizzazium Infinionite, in the world of tomorrow!
Doofenshmirtz: See? That's what it is.
Vanessa: Where did you get the...
Doofenshmirtz: It's gone! Someone took the last one!
(Meanwhile...)
Baljeet: What luck! Pizzazzium Infinionite! That science prize is as good as mine!
Buford: So why am I here again?
Baljeet: Because, (hands it to Buford to hold) as a person of superior intellect, I require an angry wall of meat to protect my science project.
Buford: Angry wall of meat, huh? Yeah, I can do that.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, great. Now I have to scour this whole place and find the Pizzazzium and probably have to wrench it out of the hands of some random shopper.
(Camera pans to Perry peering around a shelf then back to Doofenshmirtz and Vanessa)
Vanessa: Wait, Dad. I can do this for you. I can go find this--this Pizzazzium thing and prove to you that I can be responsible. That I can do things on my own. Then you can get me my own car, right?
Doofenshmirtz: I don't know. Are you sure you can...
Vanessa: Of course I can. I'm me. It'll be a piece of cake.
Doofenshmirtz: We'll see.
Vanessa: (sing-song) I'm not hearing a no.
Doofenshmirtz: (sing-song) I'm not saying a yes. (pause) Here, you can take this Pizzazzium locator. It'll help.
(Perry ducks out of sight)
(Cut to Candace and Stacy walking down an isle) 
Candace: How am I gonna find that one perfect gift in this humongous store?
Stacy: Hey, isn't Jeremy into camping?
Candace: Yeah.
Stacy: So maybe a pocket knife, or a fishing lure,...or a compound bow. (imitates someone shooting an arrow) Take that, apple on kid's head!
Candace: (gasps) He said he needed a lantern!
Stacy: Yeah, a lantern's good.
Baljeet: And then I will start my own foundation to... Are you not hearing me?
Buford: What? Buford hungry. (accidentally drops tube of Pizzazzium Infinionite over balcony)
Baljeet: I really have to rethink having you as my wall of meat.
(Cut back to Candace and Stacy, who are walking down the lantern aisle)
Candace: Too big.
Stacy: Too small.
Candace: Oh, I don't want to get him just any old lantern.
Stacy: You can't expect the perfect gift to just drop out of the sky.
Candace: But... (holds hands out in expression and the tube of Pizzazzium Infinionite lands in them)
Stacy: Woah.
Candace: It's perfect! It's all futuristic-y and cool...and it dropped out of the sky!
Stacy: Well, I guess I stand corrected.
(Perry peaks out of a store shelf and grabs the tube of Pizzazzium Infinionite, replacing it with a jack-in-the-box)
Candace: When Jeremy looks into its bright glow, he'll think of me...(Candace and Stacy notice the switch) Hey, what's this?
(jack-in-the-box pops open)
Both: Ahh!
(Cut to Perry running away with the Pizzazzium Infinionite tube. Suddenly, Doofenshmirtz comes out of an aisle and they collide, causing the tube of Pizzazzium Infinionite tube to become airborne and fall to the ground via escalator.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey buddy, watch where you're... Say, you look fabulous. (a brief clip of "Fabulous" plays) Haven't I seen you somewhere before? (Perry chatters then flees the scene) No need to get huffy, you ran into me!
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb relaxing in electric chairs)
Phineas: Ahhh. You know Ferb, I think I know what I want to do every day.
(Vanessa walks by with Pizzazzium Infinionite locator, Ferb notices)
Vanessa: (beeping gets more rapid, and she notices the tube of Pizzazzium Infinionite on the ground) Well, that was easy.
(Ferb notices Baljeet and Buford coming straight towards Vanessa on a shopping cart at high speed)
Baljeet: ...I gotta get it, gotta g... gotta get it, gotta get it, gotta get it, gotta get it, gotta get it, gotta get it...
(Ferb tackles Vanessa out of the way of Buford and Baljeet's shopping cart. Baljeet grabs the tube of Pizzazium Infinionite of the ground, while running over the Pizzazzium locator, breaking it.)
Baljeet: Yes! Mine, mine mine mine mine mine mine!
(Buford and Baljeet exit the scene on the shopping cart with the tube of Pizzazzium Infinionite)
Vanessa: Wha- hey! Watch where you're... Oh great, now this thing is broken, and they've got the Pizzazziu... (sighs) Look, (to Ferb) thanks for your help, but I can do this on my own, okay? (runs away with Pizzazzium locator)
(Meanwhile...)
Candace: (sighs) That lantern was the perfect gift.
(Baljeet and Buford whoosh by on their shopping cart)
Baljeet: Woo-hoo!
Candace: Buford and Baljeet! How did they get it?
(Perry drops a bucket of marbles on the floor to stop them, and they run over the marbles, causing their shopping cart to crash. The Pizzazzium Infinionite tube bounces into a warehouse inside the mall where Vanessa follows it. She and Ferb constantly chase the Pizzazium and she finally ends up with it.)
(Song: "I'm Me")
Vanessa: ♪ I can do it, I can run, I can hunt you down ♪
♪ You can try but you can't stop me 'cause I'm gainin' ground ♪
♪ I'm light on my feet and I'm quick to the punch ♪
♪ I had a heavy breakfast but a real light lunch ♪
♪ I'm a raging bonfire, a cherry bomb, I'm me ♪
♪ I'm rough-and-tumble, I'm the one to beat, ♪
♪ I'm a fresh coat of blacktop burnin' at your feet ♪
♪ I've got a poisonous sting, when I rain I pour ♪
♪ I'm the best of the best, I'm the soup du jour ♪
♪ I'm smooth as glass and sharp as a tack, I'm me ♪
♪ I'm the last and best stick of gum in the pack, I'm me ♪
♪ I'm a strong woman, fast-talkin', big bad dog-walkin', ♪
♪ Hifalutin', drum-beatin', foot-stompin', corn-poppin', ♪
♪ Speedy locomotive that just won't stop! ♪
♪ I'm a hot apple pie with a cherry on top! ♪
♪ I'm a crowd-pleasin', head-spinnin', ♪
♪ Winnin' in the ninth inning, ♪,
♪ Whip-lashin', record-smashin', ♪
♪ Black-tie party-crashin' ♪
♪ Cyclone of fun, I'm an army of one! ♪
♪ I'm strawberry sprinkles on a hot cross bun! ♪
♪ I'm a big haymaker in a title fight ♪
♪ I'm a cute black kitten with a nasty bite ♪
♪ I'm an action double-feature on a Friday night! ♪
♪ I'm me! ♪
♪ I'm me! ♪
♪ I'm me! ♪
♪ I'm me! ♪
♪ I'm me! ♪
(Back to Phineas in the massage chair)
Phineas: Ferb, you've gotta try this chair! I can't feel my brain!
(Vanessa runs along a hall with the Pizzazium, but Perry, behind a crate, uses a pole with a clip to snatch it. Perry slips back through the narrow gap but is promptly rammed by Doofenshmirtz's full cart. The Pizzazium falls through a grate into a vent; Vanessa runs down the stairs after it and jumps into the ball pit, where it has landed.)
Vanessa: (searching through the ball pit) Ugh, I hope nobody sees me in here.
(A loud vacuuming noise is heard. Vanessa looks up and sees Ferb using a vacuum to clear the ball pit, but ducks under the balls as Linda walks past.)
Linda: Ferb, honey, aren't you a little old to be playing in the ball pit?
Ferb: Yes, yes I am.
Linda: Okay then. (walks away; Vanessa emerges from under the balls)
Vanessa: Your name is Ferb?
Ferb: Well yes, it's short for... (the vacuum pulls up the Pizzazium) Oh, here it is.
Vanessa: (grabs Pizzazium and runs out of the pit) Thanks, Ferb! See you around!
Doofenshmirtz: (walking up to a lawn mower with a sign above it) Push button, start mower. Does this really work?
(Doofenshmirtz pushes the button; the mower drives off on its own. He walks away with a "nothing happened" look.)
(Vanessa comes off an escalator just as Buford and Baljeet ride past on their cart)
Baljeet: I will take that!
(Baljeet snatches the Pizzazium and turns to see Candace and Stacy chasing them on roller skates. As they pass one aisle, the lawn mower starts chasing them. They all scream as they pass the massage chairs.)
Phineas: Ferb, my fingers look just like snakes!
(Perry uses a tennis ball launcher to shoot himself past Baljeet just as the chase passes, grabbing the Pizzazium.)
Doofenshmirtz: (at a "Mystic Eye" table) Oh, it's one of those 3D things. (holds up the picture) I can hardly see the... (Perry crashes through the picture, dropping the Pizzazium) Oop, there it is.
(The Pizzazium ends up at the bottom of an "up" escalator. Candace and Stacy try to walk down, but end up repeatedly crashing at the bottom. Buford and Baljeet come flying down the escalator in their cart and the four of them all end up crashing, driving away. While Vanessa uses a line of hanging Chinese lanterns to swing down, landing and obtaining the Pizzazium. They all scream and ram into a line of carts, sending Candace and Stacy flying and crashing into the greeting card section. Vanessa is about to walk away, but the lawn mower starts pulling her back by the line of lanterns tied around her waist. The mower begins shredding the lanterns and dragging Vanessa up the escalator.)
Vanessa: Ferb!
(Ferb sees Vanessa and uses a fishing rod to swing down to her. He pulls out every blade of a Swiss Army knife before finding the scissors and cutting the line. The lawn mower finishes shredding the lanterns and bounces down the escalator towards them. Ferb uses his fishing rod to retrieve the pocket knife, and stops the lawn mower with the screwdriver blade, dismantling the mower.)
(Cut to the greeting card section; Candace and Stacy emerge from a pile of cards)
Stacy: Check it out! They do make a card for a spilled cheese dog with mustard.
(At the top of the escalator)
Vanessa: Well, Ferb. You certainly know how to show a girl a good time! (holds up the Pizzazium) I've gotta get this to my dad immediately. (Ferb throws the Pizzazium into the tennis ball launcher, which fires) Whoa! (the Pizzazium bounces and rolls past Doofenshmirtz, in line at the checkout counter, to the entrance of the store; Doofenshmirtz gleefully picks it up) Well, that worked.
Doofenshmirtz: I got it! I got it! (Perry moves the alarm sensor at the entrance, causing the security alarm to go off) I got it! (two security guards show up)
Security guard: Excuse me sir, you know you have to pay for this. (takes the Pizzazium)
Doofenshmirtz: I was! I was going to pay!
Security guard: Tell it to the judge.
Doofenshmirtz: Don't worry, guys, we'll- we'll get this all straightened out. Va- Vanessa! Vanessa... (the guards drag him away) No no, you can't take me, I don't have anyone to curse!

End Credits
(Candace and Stacy walk up to Linda, whose cart is piled to twice her height)
Candace: Whoa, Mom. Do you think you found everything you need?
Linda: I think I have enough to tide over the bridge club.
Stacy: That's a lot of potato salad.
(Cut to Ferb and Vanessa)
Vanessa: Well, time to find out where they dragged Dad off to. Guess that car will have to wait. Oh, yeah. Thanks. (kisses Ferb on the cheek and leaves; the floral background and music start up again)
Phineas: (appears next to Ferb, shaking) Did I miss something? (Ferb touches Phineas' nose, making him stop shaking) Thanks, Ferb.



(Scene opens with sky view of the Flynn-Fletcher house. As the letter carrier walks up, Phineas pokes his head out of the mailbox.)
Phineas: Is it here yet?
Mail Lady: Sorry, boys. Not today.
Phineas: Aw, rats.
Mail Lady: Oh, wait, boys. I almost forgot, your mom's Penny Shopper.
Candace: Hey! When you two gonna move that stupid box out of the doorway?
Phineas: Box? When did that come?
Candace: The delivery guy brought it while you two were camping out in the mailbox.
Phineas: Oh, man. I can't believe it's here! Finally, the world-famous x-ray vision glasses. This is gonna be great! Whoa! We got totally ripped-off! Ferb, let me see that comic again. Oh, for crying out loud! "Amazing illusion"? "Fool your friends"? "Does not actually provide x-ray vision". Oh, man, this is a rip-off! It's just like the body building course we got last summer.
(Ferb does a pose behind Phineas's back, exposing muscles he had earned from the body building course)
Phineas: And I was so looking forward to looking through things.
(Phineas looks at Ferb, who's now wearing the x-ray glasses)
Phineas: Ferb, that's it! I know what we're gonna today!
(Candace walks towards the house, then stops when she notices a rabbit sitting on the lawn)
Candace: Oh, my gosh! Are you the cutest thing ever? Aw, you're so adorable! I just could eat you up. Not literally, but you know what I mean.
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?

(Scene switches to Agent P's lair, where Agent P has just sat down to receive his mission briefing)
Major Monogram: Agent P, Doofenshmirtz is up to his usual shenanigans, but we have a more serious problem. There's a rouge agent on the loose, and he's in your area. Carl's working with our field agents...to create a composite sketch.
Carl: Finished, sir!
Major Monogram: Carl? You said you could draw! (to Perry) I'm sorry, Agent P. In the meanwhile, he may try to find one of your secret passages and infiltrate your lair where he could hack into our mainframe. So, be on the lookout for any suspicious characters.
♪ Perry! ♪
(Perry takes a lift to the top of the chimney and uses a pair of binoculars to search for the rabbit. He is soon spotted by Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: Look, Ferb, there's Perry.
(Camera switches to Perry, now in pet mode, with the binoculars lying next to him)
Phineas: Maybe that's where he disappears to all the time. Well, if he got himself up there, he can get himself     
down. Anyway, we've got the frames and the polycarbonate lens solution. Now what we need is something that really improves eyesight. (Snaps his fingers) Hey, I know!
(Ferb pulls out a blackboard with a drawing of a carrot on it)
Phineas: Oh, Ferb, you're way ahead of me.
(Perry's wrist communicator beeps and Monogram appears on its screen)
Major Monogram: Agent P, we've hired a professional artist and got much better results. We've identified the     
rogue agent as Dennis. He's a mercenary for hire and master of disguise. You need to stop him at all costs.
(Perry goes down the chimney then sneaks over to Candace's room)
Candace: First, I'm going to name you Mr. Cutie-Patootie. Then we'll give you a complete makeover, and teach you some cool tricks. You stay put while I find you a new stylish outfit. Let's see what we got here. (While Dennis, now standing upright, searches for an entrance to Perry's lair) What am I doing with a scepter? Huh. Next! Leopard headbands are so last year. Ooh, here's some of my doll clothes! Eh, let's skip the tiara. What is this? Leg warmers? Who wears leg warmers? I definitely don't.
(Perry runs into Candace's room then chatters. Dennis stops, turns around, and growls in response)
Candace: Mr. Cutie-Patootie?
(Perry and Dennis both revert to pet mode)
Candace: I finally found— (Notices Perry, then nudges him out from her room with a foot) Get away from him! I don't want your blandness to rub off. (Picks up Dennis, then slams the door) Aw, poor Mr. Cutie-Patootie. Don't mind him. Once I'm done making you over, you're going to be new alpha pet.
(Candace puts on a purple dress on Dennis, then some powder)
Dennis: (Coughs)
Candace: (Gasps) I know! Matching shoes!
(Dennis notices Perry outside the window, who's signaling to him that he'd be watching his every move. The rogue agent hastily pulls the curtains closed)
Candace: I found it! These shoes should complete the outfit.














 






(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz Evil, Incorporated)
Doofenshmirtz: "Ah, Perry the Platypus! How unexpected for you to burst in my nefarious..." (Looks at a script) Nefarious? No, it's not. It's too much, even for me.
(Close-up of the script)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus is due any second. (checking the time on his watch) Hey, it's getting a little late. Where is he?
(Walks to the balcony through a roll-up door)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, who needs him? He never does anything until after I tell him my plans. He just stands there like a potted plant. (pauses, then notices a potted plant) In fact... (places a folded newspaper hat on the plant) Ah, Planty the Potted Plant. How unexpected! (pushes a button) I'd invite you to foil my latest scheme, (A rope comes down from a vent) but I can see you're all tied up. (Planty gets captured) You see, I don't even need Perry the Platypus.

(Scene switches to the kitchen at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Phineas: Mom's just got back from the grocery store, so we ought to have plenty of carrots for our x-ray glasses.
(Candace, holding Dennis, comes into the kitchen then snatches the bunch of carrots)
Candace: Thank you very much!
Phineas: Oh, actually, Candace, we need those.
Candace: Oh, really? For your stupid x-ray glasses?
Phineas: (angry, shows hand) Hey! They're not stu --
(Candace holds Mr. Cutie Patootie in front of Phineas)
Candace: Do you know what this is?
Phineas: Uh, is it not a rabbit?
Candace: This is an actual living creature that uses carrots for food instead of science experiments.
Ferb: So, why is he wearing a tutu?
Candace: He likes it! Don't worry, Mr. Cutie-Patootie. They're just jealous.
Phineas: Come on, maybe Isabella has some carrots.   
(Scene switches to the living room...)
Candace: Okay, let's start with some simple tricks. Sit.
(Dennis starts panting, then gnaws on a carrot)
Candace: Roll over! (Pause) Do the Worm! (Pause) Now the Robot. (Pause) Great! Wow, you must really like carrots. (Runs out of the living room)
(Dennis resumes his search for any lair entrances. He checks under a couch cushion, then a grandfather clock. When he tries to get in through it, Perry pops out and kicks him away)
(Action music)
(Perry gives Dennis the "bring it on" gesture. The rouge agent cracks his knuckles, then the two charges towards each other and starts to wrestle)
Linda: What the? (Looks over to see Perry and Dennis in pet mode) Oh, a bunny rabbit. Candace must have gotten a new pet.
(Dennis growls)
(Perry chatters)
(The two continues the fight, seemingly to be match in hand-to-hand combat. Dennis leaps up onto an end table and throws a lamp at Perry. Perry catches it and replaces it on the table as pursues Dennis into the kitchen, and out the pet door)

(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz Evil, Incorporated)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, Planty the Potted Plant, since you're just hanging around.... (chuckles) Let me demonstrate the brilliant evil-losity of my latest inven...
(dogs barking)
Doofenshmirtz: Grr. You see? See, that's what I'm talking about. Ever since those condos next door started     
allowing pets, it's been driving me bonkers! All day and all night with the barking, barking, barking! (pulls the lever) Oh, that is why I created my latest masterpiece of evil... giant Dog-Biscuit-inator.
(dogs continue barking)
Doofenshmirtz: Thank you! Thank you for my point for me! (to Planty) Now, I'll cover it with an irresistible gravy coating, and then it will take off and soar through town, getting all the dogs to chase after it until they follow it right off the edge of the Tri-State area! (smiles smugly) Well, Planty the Potted Plant. Pretty clever, eh? (pauses, then pushes Planty away) Don't give me that look. Prepare to launch...
(Planty swings back, hitting Doofenshmirtz on the back of his head)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, how did you do that? (Gets hit on back of his head again) Ow! Ow! Come out in the open where I can... Ow!
(Dogs barking)

(Scene switches to the backyard)
(Song: Quirky Worky Song)
Phineas: Stomp harder, Ferb! This carrot juice is gotta be really concentrated.
Isabella: Hey, Phineas. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Just waiting for the concentrated carrot extract to mix with the super heated optical polymers. Now I dip the frames to the x-ray solution. It may take a couple of hours to set properly.
Isabella: Or just five minutes in my Quick-E-Bake Oven. Fireside Girls are always prepared. (Places x-ray glasses in the Quick-E-Bake Oven)
(Five minutes later...)
(Oven timer dings)
Isabella: (Taps the x-ray glasses) Looks like they're ready. (Hands them to Phineas)
Phineas: Here goes nothing.
(Screaming)
Isabella: Hey, it sounds like it's coming from my house.
(Scene switches to across the street in Isabella's kitchen)
Isabella: Mom, what's wrong?
Vivian: I lost my wedding ring!
Isabella: Okay, Mom, when did you have been doing since you last saw it?
Vivian: Ah, si, si, si. I was fixing some lunch, then I washed the dishes.
Phineas: (Raises an eyebrow) Dishes, huh? It looks like a job for x-ray vision glasses. (Blinks, then finds Vivian's wedding ring stuck in the drainpipe) I found it!
Vivian: Ah, thank you, Phineas. Uh...where is it?
Phineas: Down in the drainpipe under the sink. (Moves left curtain) We'll have it out for you in a jiff. (to Ferb) Quick, Ferb! We need a 14-inch pipe wrench, a blowtorch, and a jar of mayonnaise.
(Ferb leaves, then comes back with the aforementioned items)
Vivian: Ooh, that's very sweet of you boys, but I think I'll call my regular plumber. He's bonded.
Phineas: (Takes off x-ray glasses) Okay, suit yourself.
Isabella: The glasses work great!
Phineas: (Puts the glasses back on) This is gonna be fun.
(Song: X-Ray Eyes)
♪ They say that beauty's just skin deep ♪
♪ But I've got a brand new perspective ♪
♪ Your skeleton is symmetrical ♪
♪ And your vascular system's effective ♪
♪ You can't keep secrets from me ♪
♪ 'Cause I can always see it ♪
♪ With my X-ray eyes! ♪
♪ I got a brand new way of looking at life ♪
♪ An altogether different visual spectrum ♪
♪ Sometimes photons behave like a wave ♪
♪ But they're particles when you reflect 'em ♪
♪ But that don't bother me ♪
♪ 'Cause either way I see it ♪
♪ With my X-ray eyes! ♪
♪ With my X-ray eyes! ♪
♪ Oh, with my X-ray eyes! ♪
Phineas: Looks our x-ray vision glasses have passed all the quality control tests.
Isabella: Good thing, because we're stocking up quite a pile of orders.
Phineas: Excellent. It's time to order a big truck load of carrots.
(Ferb places the x-ray glasses on the table)
Candace: Mr. Cutie-Patootie?! Where are you?! MR. CUTIE PATOOTIE!!!
(Outside in the backyard, Perry and Dennis are sword fighting with grilling equipment. Just as Perry thinks he has defeated Dennis, Dennis notices the x-ray glasses and kicks Perry away into the clothesline. He uses the glasses to find a lair opening, pulls away the grass covering it, and jumps in the tube. Perry untangles himself and follows Dennis into his lair. The rogue agent pushes a button on the console)
Female Voice: Intruder alert. Intruder alert.
(Perry gets trapped inside a cage, then Dennis snatches his fedora right off of his head, which annoys him. The rogue agent sits in Perry's chair and the computer scans the fedora, giving him access to the mainframe)
Major Monogram: Uh, hello, Agent... (Gasps) No! Not you! Agent P, you've got to stop him before he...
Female Voice: Access granted.
(Perry blinks)
(Scene switches to above ground)
Phineas: (While talking on the phone) Yes, ma'am, you heard me right. I need three metric tons of your highest grade carrots delivered A.S.A.P. (Person on the other end answers) Why yes, yes I am.
Candace: Have you seen Mr. Cutie-Patootie? I can't find him anywhere.
Phineas: Well, did you check the backyard? He might be there.
(A truck dumps the three metric tons of carrots into the back yard)
Phineas: Hmm. How about the kitchen?

(Scene switches to inside Doofenshmirtz Evil, Incorporated, where everything is in ruins)
Doofenshmirtz: (Sighs wearily) Well, Planty the Potted Plant. You have proven yourself quite the adversary. Why don't we just...call this one a draw? (Plops himself against the door) I'm kind of pooped.
(Doofenshmirtz gets flattened when a horde of dogs bursts in, following the scent of the gravy)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah! Curse you, Planty the Potted Plant!
(Dogs barking)

(A carrot falls into the hole for Perry's lair. Dennis smells it and then goes to eat it. Perry notices the carrots in the backyard on the screen, and gets an idea. He pulls a nearby lever with his tail, and all the carrots pours in. Dennis goes mad over the carrots and is distracted from Perry, who grabs a carrot and throws it at a release button. The cage rises, allowing Perry to run over and slap a pair of handcuffs onto Dennis, who's lumpy and bloated with the amount of carrots he has consumed. Perry then snatches his fedora from Dennis's head and puts it on.)
Major Monogram: Good work, Agent P. (Gives a thumbs up)

(Scene switches to above ground, in the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: You don't suppose he could've run away?
Phineas: Don't worry. I'm sure he'll turn up. (Notices that all the carrots have disappeared) Hey, what happened to all the carrots? One minute there's a backyard full of carrots. I turn around for half a minute and; Poof! – now they're gone!
Candace: Welcome to my world.
Phineas: Wow, that must be really annoying.
Candace: (Notices Perry) Oh, there you are, Perry. (Perry tiredly lies on the stone walk; she then pets him) At least you're still around. Do you like wearing pink?
(Perry starts to sweat and then chatters nervously)

(Scene switches to O.W.C.A. Headquarters)
Major Monogram: On behalf of the entire Agency, I like to thank you for your valiant service in one of our darkest hours. (places a medal and a fedora on Planty) Planty the Potted Plant, welcome to the Agency.



(Scene opens up at Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: Oh... my... gosh! I can't believe it! We're finally gonna have our first... (with Stacy) Spa day! Algae infused seaweed mud wrap...
Stacy: Hot rock rub and volcanic mineral scrub!
Phineas: Sounds like fun.
Candace: (surprised) Fun?
Phineas: Yeah! Mud, seaweed, volcanic rock.
Candace: It's not fun, it's relaxing. Which means it's enjoyable, which means it's fun. Grown-up fun. You wouldn't understand. Besides, the Le Rub de Scrub Spa is very exclusive. You can't even get in unless you know someone.
Phineas: How are you guys getting in?
Candace: Well, I know Stacy...
Stacy: ...and I know this neighbor who knows this hair-washer, who knows this bank teller, who knows this back-waxer who works at the spa.
Candace: Yeah, and I know Stacy.
Phineas: Huh. Well Ferb and I aren't connected like you guys.
Candace: Come on. Let's get going. (she and Stacy walk away)
Isabella: Hi, guys. Where you goin'?
Candace: We're going to the spa.
Stacy: Yeah. We're gonna get totally immersed in self-indulgence.
Candace: And mud.
Isabella: Sounds like fun.
Phineas: See? I told you it was fun.
Isabella: Hi, Phineas. What'cha doin'?
Phineas: Well, I think we're going to build a spa. (to Ferb) What do you say, Ferb? It'll give you a chance to do your seaweed rap. You know... (imitating turntable scratches) Huah!
Ferb: (blinks then rolls his eyes; pause) Okay.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Bills, bills, bills. Ooh, half off at Slushy Burger. Keeper.
(cat meowing)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, what a little cutie. .... What's a cute little love bug like you doing out here all by yourself? .... I'll call you Mr. Fluffy Pants because you're fluffy and you look like you're wearing pants. Plus, you remind me of my Uncle Fluffy Pants.
(a painting of Fluffy Pants Doofenshmirtz appears on the screen)

(Scene switches to Candace and Stacy, who are on their way to the spa.)
Candace: So what do you think? Soak, steam, sauna then shower? Or shower, steam, soak then sauna?
Jeremy: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Hi, Yumemy. Uh, uh, I mean...
Stacy: Hi, Jeremy.
Jeremy: I'm on my way to build houses for charity. You girls want to come with?
Stacy: Oh, we can't because we're going to the... (Candace quickly elbows her) Ow!
Candace: Oh, wow, philanthropy.
Stacy: But what about the... (Candace elbows her again; she falls to the ground) Ow!
Jeremy: Uh, it's okay, Candace, if you guys are too busy.
Stacy: Hey, what was that all about?
Candace: Uh, please hold. (to Stacy) Look, I don't want him knowing about the whole spa thing. He'll think all I care about is myself.
Jeremy: Candace.
Candace: Uno momento, por favor. (to Stacy) Look, look, we'll go "help people" for, like, 15 minutes and then we'll go to the spa.
Jeremy: Candace.
Candace: Your call is very important to us and will be answered in the order received. (to Stacy) We'll still be able to make to our spa day.
Jeremy: Candace, if you'd rather have a spa day...
Candace: You heard spa day? Because I said, "Hurrah day". Like, "Hurrah, I can't wait to build houses." That's what we're doing, right?

(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher house; backyard)
Phineas: Salt scrub. Nice, nice. Milk bath. Good. Hey, where's Buford with the seaweed?
(Scene switches to Buford, who's fighting with the giant squid over some seaweed.)
(Back in the backyard)
(truck beeping)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb, the volcanic rock is here.
Delivery Man 1: Yeah, you're going to want to let this cool down a bit before you use it.

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, he's such a cute little kitty. That's right. That's right. He loves his tuna fish. Yes, you eat that and I'll be over here working on my latest project. (pushes a button; chuckles) I'm painting.
Mr. Fluffy Pants: (Meows)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, I see you found my blueprints.
Mr. Fluffy Pants: (Purrs)
Doofenshmirtz: You like those? You like...? (the little kitty proceeds to start shredding the blueprints) No! No, not my blueprints! (beeping) No!
Mr. Fluffy Pants: (Jumps up and down on the controller.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, no. What are you doing? I worked all... (blubbering) No, not the Gloom-inator! No, no. Get off, get off.
(The Gloom-inator fires a blue beam at the sun. Gray clouds then covers up the sky.)

(Scene shifts to the house building site)
Woman: Wow. I hope it doesn't rain on us. (sighs) Anyway, I want to thank you all for volunteering today. Now, if I could have you two on drywall duty. And, you, you're on baseboard duty. (to Jeremy) And I could use you on conduit duty.
Candace: Let's go.
Woman: Oh, sorry, girls. I've got you two earmarked for nail duty.
Stacy, Candace: Yay!
Woman: And that doesn't mean manicures.
Stacy, Candace: Aw.

(At the backyard)
Phineas: Heh, don't worry, Ferb. Your secret's safe with me. Don't we have one more truck coming?
(truck beeping)
Delivery Man 2: Excuse me, we have a delivery for Phineas Flynn.
Phineas: That's me.
Delivery Man 2: We've got 18 cases of cucumbers right here. (camera pans to the aforesaid cases)
Delivery Man 3: Say, aren't you a little young to order all this?
Delivery Man 2: Yes, yes, he is. (to Phineas) Sorry, Phineas, he's new.
Phineas: No problem, welcome to the job. Hey, where's Perry?

(Scene switches to the kitchen where Perry looks around to see if anyone is coming. He then puts on his fedora, opens the trash can, and dives into it.)
Major Monogram: Uh, say, Carl, have you seen my parachute pants?
Carl: Yes, they're very nice, sir.
Major Monogram: That's not what I meant.
Carl: I know, sir, I was making a joke.
Major Monogram: Oh, that's.... Of course. That's very funny.
Carl: Thank you, sir.
Major Monogram: So, where are they?
Carl: I'll go get them.
(At that moment, Perry enters his lair and lands on his chair.)
Major Monogram: Agent P, you're... you're here. Ahem. The, uh, Tri-State Area is mired in gloom and we believe Doofenshmirtz is behind it. We thought he retired the Gloom-inator, so this one is a big question mark. I'm sure you'll know what to do, Agent P.
(Perry salutes)
So, Carl, how are we doing on those pants?
Carl: Did you want the ones with the triangles or the imitation paint splatters?
Major Monogram: Triangles. And make it snappy. (pauses) I got the urge to pop and lock.

(At the house building site)
Stacy: Let's hurry up so we don't miss our appointment.
Candace: Oh, hey, Jeremy.
Jeremy: How's it going, girls?
Candace: Oh, you know, we're just over here helping and being all buildery and stuff.
Jeremy: Cool beans. I'll let you get back to it.
Candace: Yeah, cool beans. Cool legumes. (accidentally hits a hammer on one of Stacy's fingers)
Stacy: Ow!
Candace: Okay, we'll just finish this wall and then we'll be able to make it to the... (lets go of a ply-board she was holding and then waves) Oh, hi, Jeremy.
(Jeremy waves back as the ply-board falls on Stacy.)
He's so dreamy. See what I mean?

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: No, no, don't touch the... Oh, get away from that, you bad, bad kitty. No, not the Erase-inator.
(Mr. Fluffy Pants leaps onto the Erase-inator and lands on its button. A green laser hits a billboard for Fitzal's Hats, which then disappears.)
Doofenshmirtz: Not the Bigger-inator.
(While he says that, the mischievous cat jumps onto the aforesaid -inator and activates it. The moon gets hit by a green laser and immediately increases in size.)
No! Look what you did to the moon. It's huge. It's... Uh... It's... Uh... It's actually kinda pretty.
(In the background, the door slams open and the camera pans to reveal that Perry kicked it down.)
Perry the Platypus!
(Perry folds his arms and glares at Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: (while gesturing and waving his arms around) No, no. You think I did all this...
(Camera pans to Perry, who raises an eyebrow and then blinks.)
Doofenshmirtz: It wasn't me, I tell you. (points to Mr. Fluffy Pants) It was Mr. Fluffy Pants.
(Perry glares at Doofenshmirtz again and then looks to where the white-and-black cat is innocently sleeping in his bed.)
I call him Mr. Fluffy Pants. You know, he's fluffy, he looks like he's got pants. Plus, he reminds me of my Uncle Fluffy Pants.
(Once again, the painting of Fluffy Pants Doofenshmirtz appears on the screen. Only this time the camera pans back to reveal that he's wearing white boxer shorts with pink hearts on it.)
Doofenshmirtz: Who never actually wore any pants. Come to think of it, I don't know why we called him that.
Hmm. Anyway, I just love giving people nicknames. For instance, you're Mr. Duck-Bill Face. And Major Monogram, I call him "Monobrow". (laughs) That's a good one, you know, because he's... He's got the one, you know? And his little friend, the intern, is Dr. Coconut. (pauses) Yeah. Sometimes I wish I didn't know so much.
(After he finished speaking, Perry leaps up, punches him in the face, and then jumps down onto the floor.)

(At the house building site)
Candace: Oh, Stacy, don't you just love how Jeremy buckles his tool belt on the third loop?
Stacy: (muffled cries)
Candace: (dreamily) Me, too. We're so gonna get married some day. Did I tell you what we're gonna name our kids? Xavier and Amanda.
Stacy: That's it! Our appointment's in five minutes, and I'm going with or without you.
Woman: Oh, are you leaving? I was kind of hoping that maybe you could help me with a teensy-weesny little task. I need that slab of concrete turned into rubble by sundown. You don't mind, right? I mean... After all, it is for the less fortunate. Thanks, I knew I could count on you.
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. I just finished my side of the house and I'm heading home. It was nice hanging out with you all day.
Candace: Bye, Jeremy. It was nice hanging out with you, too. All day. (giggles) Did you hear that? We hung out all day.
(Candace leans against the jackhammer, which causes the motor to start.)
Stacy: (while causing a mess with the jackhammer) Ah, help me!
Candace: I'm coming. Stacy!
Stacy: Out of the way!
Candace: (screaming)
(In the following scene, the girls are leaving the house building site.)
Candace: I'm sorry we had to clean up everything destroyed and had to rebuild it, I'm especially sorry I made us miss our spa appointment, but most of all, I'm sorry for being a bad friend. I was just trying to impress Jeremy and I lost sight of...
Stacy: Okay, you can stop that right now. You're starting to sound like one of those TV show we like to make fun of.
Candace: But, Stacy, I...
Stacy: Look, the way I see it, you prevented me from going to the spa, almost killed me with a jackhammer, dropped a wall on me, I've gypsum in my hair, and basically wasted my whole day. But you did it for love, so it's okay.
Candace: Really?
Stacy: Yeah, remember that time in the third grade?
Candace: You mean when you glued that hamster to my hair just to impress Billy Clark?
Stacy: Yeah, it's just like that.
Candace, Stacy: (sigh) Billy Clark.
Candace: So, I guess we're even.
(Candace walks into the backyard and then stops)
Candace: Oh.
Stacy: My.
Candace: Gosh.
(Camera shows various places of the spa Phineas and Ferb had built in the backyard.)
Buford: It's not plugged in.
Phineas: Hey, sis. Wow, you seem pretty wiped out. Looks like you two could use a spa day.
Candace: A backyard spa? You guys are so bust...
(Stacy glares at her.)
Yeah, that sounds great.
(Song: Spa Day)
Background Voice: ♪ It's spa day ♪
♪ A day to unwind ♪
♪ We'll walk on your spine ♪
♪ We'll be kind...♪
(The song turns into a seaweed rap tune)
Ferb: ♪ It's spa day! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Yeah! ♪
Ferb: ♪ P & F on the scene! ♪
♪ Gonna slather you with butter ♪
♪ Make you feel like a queen ♪
♪ Get you sittin' in the hot tub— ♪
Isabella, Fireside Girls: ♪ Loungin'! ♪
Ferb: ♪ You're thinkin' this place is— ♪
Isabella, Fireside Girls: ♪ —Astoundin'! ♪
Ferb: ♪ Hot steam, hot stones, hot water, hot wax! ♪
♪ We're poppin' cool new age music, can't help but relax! ♪
(new-age theme plays)
♪ It's a spa day, ♪
Phineas: ♪ Yeah! ♪
Ferb: ♪ Shiatsu— ♪
Phineas: ♪ Gesundheit! ♪
Ferb: ♪ Thank you very much, ♪
♪ We got a salt scrub, a mud tub; what's it gonna be? ♪
♪ A foot bath, a facial, aromatherapy! ♪
Phineas, Ferb: (both inhale deeply) ♪ Yeah... ♪
♪ Aromatherapy! ♪
Ferb: ♪ It's spa day! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Yeah! ♪
Ferb: ♪ Shiatsu! ♪
Male Voice:♪ Where ya from?♪
Masseur: ♪ I'm Pennsylvania-Dutch ♪
Ferb: ♪ Sippin' cucumber water and a big slice of lime, ♪
♪ Throw your clock away, you're on P & F time! It's a— ♪
Background Voice: ♪ Spa day! ♪
Phineas: Well, you two are our last customers. We're gonna go ahead and close up, but you're welcome to stay as long as you like.

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, I keep telling you; it's not me, it's him. (points to the right) Look over there. Look.
(Camera pans to Mr. Fluffy Pants, who's sitting on the Erase-inator. He meows then presses the button with a paw.)

(In the backyard, the laser from the Erase-inator makes the entire spa disappear just before Linda opens the gate.)
Linda: Candace? Stacy? .... What are you doing?
Candace: We're enjoying the spa.
Linda: What spa?
Candace: Well, Phineas and Ferb... The spa's gone, isn't it?
Linda: What does that even mean?
Candace: Ah. Never mind.

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: See? See, I told you it wasn't me.
(Mr. Fluffy Pants meows and then falls off of the Erase-inator. Luckily, he caught the end of it with his front paws.)
Doofenshmirtz: No! Mr. Fluffy Pants! (he grabs the cat just in the nick of time) Wait. Wait, wait, wait. Oh, that was close, Mr. Fluffy Pants. You almost... (screaming) You know, I think you're more trouble than you're worth.
(Perry dives off of the building, the parachute opens, and he catches both Doofenshmirtz and Mr. Fluffy Pants.)
♪ Perry! ♪
(In the next scene, Doofenshmirtz and Mr. Fluffy Pants are safe on the sidewalk thanks to Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, he seems okay. He seems so lovely-dovey.
Boy: My cat. I've been looking all over for him. (holds up a missing poster)
Doofenshmirtz: (after a long pause) Ah, I'm going to have to do the right thing here, aren't I? Fine. Here you go.
(Doofenshmirtz hands Mr. Fluffy Pants, or rather Mr. Cat, to its rightful owner.)
Crowd: Aw!
(Camera pans out to reveal that a crowd had gathered to witness the event.)
Doofenshmirtz: Don't you people have jobs?

End Credits
(Song: Dr. Coconut)
♪ Oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, ♪
♪ Doctor Coconut ♪
♪ Look out ♪
♪ Here he comes ♪
♪ Doctor Coconut ♪
♪ Look out ♪
♪ Here he comes ♪
♪ Doctor Coconut ♪



Part 1
(The scene starts with Phineas, Ferb, and Baljeet in the backyard, building a superstructure)
Phineas: Okay, we finished the superstructure, but what we really need now is a tool that would fuse wood and metal out of a molecular level.
Baljeet: Technology like that is twenty years away; you will need a time machine. Luckily, I have been working on a design. I have no field about all the quantum physics yet, but if you give me a couple of days...
Phineas: Or we could just use the one at the museum.
Baljeet: There is a time machine at the museum?
Phineas: Yeah, we took it back to the Mesozoic Era.
Baljeet: You got to hang out with dinosaurs?
Phineas: Yeah, earlier this summer.
(Ferb shows pictures of them with the dinosaurs)
Baljeet: Hmm. (sarcastic) Well, thank you for inviting me.
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today. Or I should say, I know what we're gonna do twenty years from today.
Isabella: Hey, guys! Watcha doin'?
Phineas: We're time-traveling.
Isabella: Can I come?
Phineas: Why not?
Candace: (on the phone) Yes, Stacy. They're building something out there. But I decided the problem is I always drop the gun. So I'm gonna wait 'til just the right moment--
Stacy: Hello? Hello?
Candace: They're on the move; I'll bust them now! I'll bust them now!

(in the museum, riding on the time machine)
Phineas: Twenty years forward, and away we go! (disappears)
Candace: So that's it! They're time-traveling again! And the best part is they have to return to this exact spot. And I'll be standing right here with mom to bust them when they do. Actually, right over here. I'll be, uh...crushed by the machine if I was standing there. And...I'm talking to nobody.
(twenty years after)
Phineas: Here we are, twenty years in the future. Isabella, wait. You're the only one we can trust to watch the machine. (leaves)
Isabella: (romanticizes) He trusts me... (leans over the lever and transports her in time) Oops!
Janitor: (sees it) Yeaah, I hate cleaning that thing anyway.
Phineas: Hey, I see the museum finally had that new wing. And would you look how Danville's changed... Hey, mobile homes, flying cars, jet packs... Hey, look at that! That looks like...it is! It's Candace twenty years older! I almost didn't recognize her—she looks so relaxed. And those must be her kids in the yard.
Amanda: I can't believe you, Xavier and Fred. You two are so lazy; it's summer vacation and you're wasting it! You guys never do anything!
Xavier: Well, I'm sitting under this digital tree.
Fred: And I'm sitting next to him.
Amanda: (to Future Candace) Do you see your two sons out there doing nothing? They never do anything!
Future Candace: Oh honey, don't exaggerate. I wish you would just get along. Your uncles Phineas and Ferb and I were great friends as children.
(the backyard door opens automatically)
Phineas: The future. (sees Xavier and Fred) Hi guys. Whatcha doin'?
Xavier: I'm sitting under this digital tree.
Fred: And I'm sitting next to him.
Future Candace: (on the phone) Oh Stacy, every job has its problems. But there's gotta be an upside to being president of Uruguay. No, huh. Me? I'm fine, the kids are fine. Xavier and Fred are in the backyard with young Phineas and Ferb. (realizes) YOUNG Phineas and Ferb?! Gotta go, Stacy. Good luck with that llama legislation.
(goes outside and peeks over the boys)
Xavier: ...and yesterday, I was sitting on the left.
Fred: And I was sitting next to him...
Xavier: ...on the right. We like to mix it up.
Future Candace: It IS them! I bet they traveled here from the past. (climbs up the tree) Ohh, look how cute and... BUSTABLE they look. Wait, isn't this just a digital tree? (falls down) AAH!
Xavier: Hey mom.
Phineas: Hi, Candace...
Future Candace: AAAAAHHH!!! I'm telling MOM!
Phineas: Hey, that reminds me. Where's Perry?

(Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Future Doofenshmirtz: I finally got you, Perry the Platypus. The end game is finally he-ere. (plays checkers) Oh wait, I moved one piece. (sees Future Perry sleeping) I'll just put it back.
(Future Perry wakes and throws his denture over him)
AAAAAH! AAAAHHHH!!
♪ Dooby Dooby Doo Bah... Haaahhh... Dooby Dooby Doo Bah... ♪

Phineas: So, what spectacular adventures have you got lined up this summer?
Xavier: I'm sitting under this digital tree.
Fred: And I'm sitting next to him.
Phineas: That's it? But it's summer vacation and you're free to do anything!
Xavier: Yeah, but this is the future and everything's already been done.
Phineas: The stone age was once the future, as was the Middle Ages. Creativity and inventions never end! There's a whole bunch of stuff you can do this summer.
(Bowling for Soup appears)
(Song: 2nd Verse of "Today is Gonna Be a Great Day")
♪ Like Maybe: ♪
♪ Crossing the tundra or building a rollercoaster, ♪
♪ Skiing down a mountain of beans, ♪
♪ Devising a system for remembering everything, ♪
♪ Or synchronizing submarines! ♪
♪ Racing chariots, taming tiger sharks, constructing a portal to Mars! ♪
♪ Building a time machine, stretching a rubber tree, or wailing away on guitars! ♪
♪ (Oh, man) ♪
♪ This could possibly be the best day ever! ♪
♪ (This could possibly be the best day ever) ♪
♪ And the forecast says that tomorrow will likely be a million and six times better, ♪
♪ So make every minute count, jump up, jump in and seize the day, ♪
♪ And let's make sure that in every single possible way, ♪
♪ Today is gonna be a great day! ♪
Phineas: Thanks a lot, guys.
Jaret Reddick: No prob, we appreciate the gig.
Phineas: (to Xavier and Fred) Bowling for Soup. Ehh, before their time. So, what are you guys gonna make this summer? How about, uh... Bumper cars that move over five dimensions?
Xavier: Oh yeah. Okay, we'll do that.
Phineas: Fun! We'd love to stay and help, but we've gotta find a wood-and-steel-fusing tool.
Xavier: Fred's got one.
Fred: I'm sitting on it.
Xavier: I'm sitting next to it.
Phineas: Fantastic. Thanks guys! Have a good future! (leaves)
Xavier: I like that kid.
Fred: I like the kid standing next to him!
(At Flynn-Fletcher Antiques)
Future Candace: Mom, you gotta come with me right now.
Future Linda: I can't right now, dear. I'm getting ready for my tour. It's my come back, come back, come back, come back...
Future Candace: Mom.
Future Linda: ...come back, come back, come back...
Future Candace: Are you finished?
Future Linda: Wait. Come back tour. Two more come back tours and I get a free pie.
Future Candace: (pulls Linda) Come on.
(at the museum)
Phineas: That's funny. What happened to the...
(the time machine appears)
Isabella, I thought I said to stay on the time machine.
Isabella: I did, it's the time machine that moved. I brought back a woolly mammoth's tusk, a viking helmet, and smallpox. And the vaccine.
Phineas: Cool. Let's make like a banana and burn our molecules to the space time continuum.
Future Candace: They weren’t at my house so they must be here.
Future Linda: Honey, I can't move as fast as I used to.
Future Candace: There! No, wait... (time machine disappears) Too late. Mom!!
Future Linda: I always loved this old bone.
Future Candace: Mom! You never saw them and you still never see them! It's unfair, it's unfair, it's unfair!
Future Linda: Candace, you're a grown woman. I really thought you had finally moved past all this nonsense.
(back at the PRESENT)
Candace: Come on, mom. Hurry!
Linda: This is great Candace, really. But I have lots to do today.
Candace: Here, see? The time machine is gone! Mom?
(the time machine appears)
Phineas: Oh hi, Candace.
Candace: Mom! Mom!
Linda: Look, Candace. They're putting a new bone on display.
Candace: Oh, you missed it again!
Phineas: Hi, mom!
Linda: Oh hi, boys.
Phineas: Wow, imagine the size of the creature that bone came from.
Linda: I know, huh?
(to Mesozoic Era, shows a dinosaur with that large bone as a foot get crushed)
Candace: No, can't you see? They're time-traveling!
Linda: This obsession with the boys has gone on too long. You need to stop. (walks away)
Candace: I won't stop, never, never, never!!
(FUTURE)
Future Candace: I was so close to busting them.
(a time machine with Professor Onassis appears)
Professor Onassis: Great Bertha's bloomers, I've done it! I, Professor Onassis, have invented a time machine! Excuse me, future female of the species, have corn dogs been invented yet?
Future Candace: Yes.
Professor Onassis: Hot dog. I'm stayin'.
Amanda: (on the phone) Okay, so Sharron's internet feed conks out right in the middle of math class. Wait, my mom's calling. Hi, mom. What's the fuzz?
Future Candace: Amanda, I'm taking a short trip today. While I'm away, you're in charge.
Amanda: (to the boys) I'm in charge! Wait, what are you doing?
Fred: Nothing!
Amanda: I knew it! You never do anything!
(in the time machine)
Future Candace: Now where do I go? More importantly when? I know, I'll set it for a day I know I can bust the boys. Back to the first day of that summer. The day they built the rollercoaster. (disappears)
Future Janitor: (sees it) Sometimes it's here, sometimes it's not. What do I care?
(The Day of the Rollercoaster)
Pedro: Phineas and Ferb got a rollercoaster? Think we could get a discount if we bring the flier?
Kid 2: Maybe we better take it.
(They take the poster just before Candace and Linda arrive)
Past Candace: There! Look, look, look, see? I told you I'm not crazy! I told you!
Past Linda: And you're not crazy because...?
Past Candace: (looks at the post where the poster was) AAAAAHHH!!
Future Candace: The poster's missing, right? Follow me. (drags Linda out)
(Outside...)
Past Linda: (sees the coaster) OH MY STARS! Phineas and Ferb made THAT?!? It's horribly unsafe and dangerous! (on the phone) Hello, police?! Fire department?! Army?! Air force?! Marines?! ANYONE?! SAVE MY SONS!!!
Past Doofenshmirtz: It's no use! It's no use; we are doooooomed!
(on the helicopter)
Intercom: This is Base to Chopper One, some kids built a rollercoaster through downtown.
Pilot: It's be—Roger that.
(the helicopter leaves, making Perry unable to aim his grapnel on it)
(the tin foil destroys the building, bringing Perry with it)
Past Doofenshmirtz: (jumps to safety) I'm ALIVE!!!
Intercom: Roger, got the kids, bringing 'em down now.
Past Linda: Phineas, Ferb! You two are in SO much trouble!
Past Candace: Yes! Yes!
Future Candace: My work here is done. (at the time machine) Back to the future. (disappears)
Janitor: (sees it) First day on the job, and I'm already seeing things.
(goes to the BAD FUTURE)
Future Candace: (becoming the BAD FUTURE Candace) Oh thank goodness, it's great to be back... Home? (sees the strange future) Welcome to Danville? (looks around) Uh-oh.

Part 2
BAD Future Candace: I can't believe this is Danville. Hello? What happened to the museum?
Man: Didn't you get the new ShmirtzMail? It's the new doofen-law. Law number six million and seven: "All museums that aren't about Doofenshmirtz are to be dismantled." Hey, why aren't you wearing your lab coat?
Bad Future Candace: Uhh, I've gotta go see my children. (leaves)
Man: Children? There are no children allowed anymore.
Bad Future Candace: How long have I been away? That's strange. Joe's, Joe's, Joe's, Joe's...
Joe #1: Hi Joe.
Joe #2: Hello, Joe.
Joe #3: (to Bad Future Candace) Pardon me, Joe. You haven't seen my wife Joe, or my friends Joe and Joe?
Bad Future Candace: Uhh, no?
Joe #3: Thanks anyway, Joe.
Bad Future Candace: Why is everyone named Joe?
Joe #4: (laughs) Why else? So Emperor Doofenshmirtz need not bother remembering names.
Bad Future Candace: And who is...?
Joe #4: (Gasps) I said too much. I said too much! AAAAHHH!!
Bad Future Candace: Who the heck is Doofenshmirtz?! (goes to a library) That's odd. I've got to find out what happened in the last twenty years. (activates a hologram projector)
Voice: Our glorious dystrophy began one summer afternoon when two local boys were caught building and riding a dangerous rollercoaster. The rightful reaction by concerned parents groups was to stop all creativity in young people before someone got hurt. Everything fun and unique was gleefully banned! Dangerous swing sets were re-made into dismal hospital beds. Coloring books were colored in ahead of time. And inside the lines. Eventually children themselves were child-proof and stored away until adulthood. Yes, oppressive beauty and happiness were gratefully replaced by the glimmering cesspool we wallow in today. A demoralized Tri-State Area cried out to be oppressed, and that cry was answered by one hero...
(Bad Future Doofenshmirtz appears on the hologram, laughing evilly)
...Emperor Doofenshmirtz!
Bad Future Doofenshmirtz: (on hologram) Aagh, get back to work!
Bad Future Candace: So this is all my fault! I've got to stop this.
Librarian: Excuse me, Joe. Lab coat must be worn at all times.
(Bad Future Candace runs out, passing an Evil Doofenshmirtz statue)
Joe #5: Sir, a woman just ran past your statue there without basking in your awful glory.
Bad Future Doofenshmirtz: Aagh, come on. You're such a tattletale.
Joe #5: Well, yeah. It's my job description; a tattletale.
Bad Future Doofenshmirtz: Quiet! I need to address the populous. Attention, underlings! People often ask me: "Doof, how does it feel to wield such absolute power?" Well I tell ya.
(Song: "Charmed Life")
♪ It's been a charmed life, ♪
♪ Got all I ever wanted, ♪
♪ And I'm not too shy to flaunt it, you see! ♪
♪ It's been a sweet ride, ♪
♪ Everyone is genuflectin' ♪
♪ And erecting giant statues of me! ♪
♪ It's like a great lunch with all you can eat, ♪
♪ And I can leave my wallet at home, ♪
♪ And everyone pays for me, ♪
♪ Because it's compulsory, ♪
♪ Or into the stockade they're thrown, ♪
♪ Still, I'm a nice guy, ♪
♪ How many emperors would always remember your name? ♪
♪ How ya doing, Joe? ♪
♪ I must admit, I ♪
♪ May take quite a lot, ♪
♪ But I'll always give you plenty of blame, ♪
♪ It's been a sweet ride, ♪
♪ Life's a bowl of cherries, and nobody's merrier than me, ♪
♪ Because, everyone else is a proletariat, ♪
♪ And baby, I'm the bourgeoisie, ♪
♪ Look it up, Joe! ♪
♪ Baby, I'm the bourgeoisie! ♪
♪ Oh, yeah! ♪

(headquarters)
Bad Future Major Monogram: Agent P, another failed mission. It's gotten really hard to defeat Doofenshmirtz ever since we swore that oath to obey him.
Bad Future Carl: Major Monogram, I've detected a temporal anomaly in quadrant four which means a time machine was recently used there.
Bad Future Major Monogram: That's it! Agent P, you've got to get to that time machine and go back to the past, right before that giant tin foil ball put you in a full body cast for eighteen months. That's when Doofenshmirtz got the upper hand and it's been downhill ever since. This is our chance to fix it.
(Bad Future Doofenshmirtz appears on the screen)
Bad Future Doofenshmirtz: Oh wait, Perry the Platypus. Change of plans; instead of doing that, DON'T. All right, see you later. Remember the oath!
(Bad Future Perry loses hope)
Bad Future Major Monogram: Curse that oath!

(at the abandoned museum)
Bad Future Candace: What? Where's that time machine? Excuse me, where's everything from the museum?
Joe #6: It's all in the city dump, Joe. Let's go. (leaves)
(Bad Future Candace goes to the city dump and sees the time machine, still in one piece)
Bad Future Candace: (removes the stuff above the machine) Back to the past, back to the past, back to the past! (disappears)

(On the day of the FUTURE ROLLERCOASTER)
(Bad Future Candace leaves the time machine)
Man: Looks like this good a spot to start a dump.
Man #2: Yeah, works for me.
(Bad Future Candace stops Future Candace from going inside the market)
Future Candace: W-Wha? A-Are you me? But I have to bu...
Bad Future Candace: Change of plans! Come on, I'll explain later. We can't let Candace see us. (Pulls Future Candace into a parking lot)
Future Candace: But I'M Candace!
Bad Future Candace: So am I.
Past Candace: (sees the rollercoaster) Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! Mom? Mom?! (runs off)
Bad Future and Future Candace: Ohh, I was so cute.
Future Candace: Why did you stop me? I was just about to bust the boys!
Bad Future Candace: Well, that's just it. I'm from the future where we DID bust the boys.
Future Candace: Really? How was it? Was it great?
Bad Future Candace: No, it was awful. The future gets all messed up. Oh look!
(they see the helicopter carries the entire rollercoaster)
Bad Future and Future Candace: So that's how it happened.
Bad Future Candace: Get down!
Past Candace: Look, look, look! See?!
Past Linda: (pause) Okay, I give up. What am I supposed to be looking at?
Past Candace: (sees no rollercoaster) No! It's not possible!!
Past Linda: I'm gonna go get the cart.
Past Candace: It was right here, and it was HUGE! (sees the rollercoaster fly away) Mom!
Future Candace: Wow, the future sounds so horrible!
Bad Future Candace: It was, trust me.
Future Candace: Okay, but coming from anybody but myself, I wouldn't listen.
Bad Future Candace: They're gone! Let's get back to the time machine and get out of here.
(they both go to the time machine which was just rolled over by the giant tin foil)
Past Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Platypus!
Future Candace: Okay, that was weird.
Bad Future Candace: Now when the machine is shot, how do we get back?
Bad Future and Future Candace: Phineas and Ferb.
(at the Flynn Fletcher house)
Past Linda: Okay, we're here. Are you happy now, Candace?
Past Candace: (goes at the backyard) See Mom, I told you they weren't there!
(Candace opens the gate and gestures toward the tree with her eyes closed. Linda pokes her head through the gate opening and sees the boys)
Past Linda: Oh hi, boys. (At this point, Candace opens her eyes and her mood changes to shock)
Past Phineas: Hi, Mom.
Past Linda: Come on Candace, help me with the groceries.
Past Candace: But-but-but-but-but-but-but-but... (continues)
Past Linda: Let's go. (pulls her away)
Kid #1: Hey Phineas, that was great.
Kid #2: Way too cool.
Kid #3: That was awesome! Can we do it again?
Past Phineas: Sorry, only one ride per customer.
(Bad Future and Future Candace arrive)
Past Isabella: That was great, Phineas.
Bad Future Candace: Oh, wait, wait, wait. Remember? Three, two, one.
(the railcar on top of the tree explodes)
(the two Candaces laugh)
Past Phineas: Wait, Candace! You're grown up, and there's two of you!
Future Candace: Phineas, we're from the future—two alternative futures. One that's good...
Bad Future Candace: ...and one that's terrible.
Past Phineas: Someone should really fix that.
Bad Future and Future Candace: We did.
Past Phineas: So the bad future no longer exists?
Bad Future and Future Candace: Right.
Past Phineas: Well if it doesn't exist, shouldn't Candace from the bad future cease to exist too?
Bad Future Candace: Oh darn. (disappears)
Future Candace: Guys, I need your help. The time machine I arrived in is smashed to pieces. I'm stuck here unless you guys can build me one.
Past Phineas: Ferb, isn't there an old time machine in the Museum of National History?
Future Candace: Yes, that's what you'll fix later this summer when we go to the museum. It's the one I took back from the future but now it's destroyed.
Past Phineas: Okay. So the future time machine gets destroyed, that means the one here in the present is rarin' to go! We'll fix it, take you to the future, bring back the time machine, and we'll unfix it again. So we'll be ready to fix it when we go to the museum again.
Future Candace: Phineas, I'm a fully grown woman and I didn't understand any of that.
Past Phineas: Just trust me. Come on! (drags Future Candace)
Past Isabella: Wow, rollercoaster ride, and now this. Bonus.
Past Candace: (sees them gone) Wait a minute.
(in the museum)
Future Candace: Are you sure you can fix this time machine?
Past Phineas: Don't worry, Candace. We're almost done.
Past Candace: (hiding) Candace? Time machine? (approaches Future Candace) A-ha!
Past Phineas: Candace, meet Candace.
Past Candace: Awesome! I finally have proof! I'll take my older self, bring her to mom, mom will see the boys have invented some kind of time machine, and they'll be busted! Oh I love you, me! Come on, let's go! Let's get see mom! Come on! (laughs frantically as she tries to pull Future Candace)
Future Candace: Wow. Was I always this nuts? Candace, honey, get a hold of yourself. I have no interest in busting the boys anymore.
Past Candace: What?! But you're me! You have to want to bust them 'cause I'm never gonna stop wanting to bust them!
Future Candace: You know, sometimes getting what you want isn't what you need. You'll find out as you mature.
Past Phineas: Ready?
Past Candace: (mimics Future Candace) "You'll find out as you mature".
Future Candace: Candace, just relax. Everything works out.
Past Phineas: Twenty years into the future, here we come!
Past Candace: Ugh...! (climbs up on the time machine as it disappears)<br /
(to the FUTURE)
Past Candace: A-ha! If you won't show my mom what's going on, I'll show your mom! I'm all the proof I need!
Future Candace: Candace!
Past Phineas: We better go and get her. You know, that space time continuum thing.
Past Candace: Mom has an antique store. Yes, it's still here! (the door opens automatically) Wow, future. Mom!! It's me, Candace from the past! I came here from the time machine that Phineas and Ferb borrowed from the museum. You gotta bust them!
Future Linda: Honey, what are you talking... Candace! You're so young!
Past Candace: Mom! You're so ooollll....
Future Linda: Don't say it.
Past Candace: ...lllllllddd....
Future Linda: You don't have to say that word.
Past Candace: ...ddddd.
Future Linda: I mean it!
(Phineas, Ferb and Isabella entered)
Past Phineas: Mom! You're so old!
Future Linda: (sighs) Hi boys. Aren't you a little young to be time-travelers?
Past Phineas: Yes, yes we are.
Future Linda: A time machine, huh? Does this mean that all those times you told me the boys were up to something, they really were?
Past Candace: Yes, yes, yes!
Future Linda: Oh, honey. I am so sorry I didn't believe you.
Past Candace: Woohoo! I finally caught them! (silence) Hellooo?
Future Linda: What?
Past Candace: Aren't you going to bust them?
Future Linda: Candace, my Phineas and Ferb are thirty years old now. Well, I suppose I could call them, but Phineas is in Switzerland for the award ceremony and Ferb is in Camp David for...
Past Candace: Bust them. Young Phineas and Ferb!
Future Linda: I don't think I have jurisdiction on these guys anymore.
Past Candace: Grrrrr... (sighs) Okay, but officially, on record, they are busted. Right?
Future Linda: Sure, Candace. They're busted.
Past Candace: Yes!

(at the museum)
Future Candace: Guys, we see how time travel can mess things up big time. So promise me you won't go to the future again.
Past Phineas: Yeah, maybe it is a bad idea. Just think: It all started because we needed that steel-and-wood fusing tool.
(Isabella leaves)
Past Phineas: Hey Candace, you never told us. How do Ferb and I turned out?
Future Candace: Fantastic. Just keep doing what you're doing and be nice to your sister.
Past Candace: Yeah, be nice to your sister.
(the time machine appears with Isabella)
Past Isabella: Are you guys coming or what? (drinks soda)
Past Candace: Where'd you get that?
Amanda: So that's Uncle Phineas and Ferb as kids?
Future Candace: That's right.
Amanda: And that girl looks like Aunt Isabella.
Past Isabella: Did you hear that? Aunt Isabella! That means I'm gonna marry Phineas.
Past Candace: Or Ferb.
(Isabella turns blank in shock as Ferb winks)
Past Phineas: Let's go.
Future Candace, Linda and Amanda: Bye!
Future Candace: Looks like everything is back to normal.
Amanda: Wow mom, your brothers are so cool. Meanwhile, I'm stuck with... Hey! Where'd they go?
(Xavier and Fred appear with their bump cars)
Amanda: Xavier and Fred, what are you doing?
Xavier: Nothing?
Amanda: See Mom? They never do anything!
Future Candace: Give it a rest, Amanda.
Future Linda: Ah, memories.
Future Candace: I know, huh?

(to the PRESENT)
Past Candace: Oh man! In twenty years you guys are so busted! I guess that's a hollow victory... But it proves that you can be busted, so I'm never gonna give up! Never, never, never! Did I say, "Never?!" Oh, yes I did! Never, never, never! Never! NEVER! NEVER!!!! NEVER!!!! (runs off)
Past Ferb: Well, at least we know she mellows with age.

End credits
Baljeet: You got to hang out with dinosaurs?
Phineas: Yeah, earlier this summer.
(Ferb shows pictures of them with the dinosaurs)
Baljeet: Hmm. (sarcastic) Well, thank you for inviting me.
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we we're gonna do today.
(Isabella in the time machine appears)
Past Isabella: No you don't. Here's the wood-and-steel fusing tool you need.
Phineas: Thanks. Hey, want a soda?
Past Isabella: Thanks. (disappears)
Phineas: Well, looks like we don't have to go to the future after all!
Ferb: Some other time, perhaps.
(cut to end logos)
Candace: I'M WATCHING YOU!!!!



Part I
TV Announcer: From the PFT studio in marginally attractive downtown Danville, animated live in front of a studio audience, it's the Phineas and Ferb Musical Cliptastic Countdown! And now, our hosts, from opposite ends of the moral, ethical and philosophical spectrum, Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz and Major Francis Monogram!
Major Monogram: Hello Danville!
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, we're taking a break from our usual hostili—hold on, I've gotta go back one. Your first name is Frances?
Major Monogram: Yes. Spelled with an i.
Doofenshmirtz: "Spelled with an i? Wouldn't that be "Frinces?"
Major Monogram: No, F-R-A-N-C-I-S. It's the masculine spelling.
Doofenshmirtz: Francis?
Major Monogram: Yes. Anyway, we're not here to discuss my name. We're here because kids all over the world logged on to vote for their favorite Phineas and Ferb music videos. And we're countin' 'em down! Starting with number 10. Are ya ready, Dr. D?
Doofenshmirtz: Fran, Frances, Franny. Yes, very macho.
Major Monogram: You see, this is why I just go by "Major".
(Song #10: Ready for the Bettys)
Crash: Ladies and Gentlemen, Candace and her best friend, Stacy.
♪ You gotta bring your Betty Bongos ♪
♪ and bring your Betty bass Guitar ♪
♪ and with the Betty back beat ♪
♪ you'll go Betty Betty far ♪
♪ So drop your boring baggage ♪
♪ and come with Missy, Tink and Crash ♪
♪ There's a Betty (There's a Betty) Bandwagon ♪
♪ Going to a Betty bash (Going to a Betty bash)! ♪
♪ Get ready for the Bettys, ready for the Bettys ♪
♪ Get ready for the Bettys, ready for the Bettys ♪
♪ (Ready for the Bettys) ♪
♪ Get ready for the Bettys, ready for the Bettys ♪
♪ It's the best thing you can do! (Best thing you can do!) ♪
♪ Get ready for the Bettys 'cause the Bettys are ready for you! ♪
Stacy: So what do you think your brothers are doing?
Candace: Who cares?
Major Monogram: So how did you like that one D-man?
Doofenshmirtz: Too loud. Kids today with their rock and roll.
Major Monogram: Well, here's a deaf jam that's really kicking it old school.
Doofenshmirtz: You know that street lingo thing? You can't really pull that off.
Major Monogram: Oh, roll number nine.
Doofenshmirtz: Just telling you as a friend!
(Song #9: Queen of Mars)
Candace: That's it; you're getting it.
♪ I was just a lonely girl ♪
♪ looking for a little fun ♪
♪ though without a friend in the world ♪
♪ I was forced to find a new one ♪
♪ Now I'm the Queen of Mars ♪
♪ I was invisible on Earth ♪
♪ It only took a magic portal to Mars ♪
♪ to give me some self-worth ♪
♪ You put a crown on my head and ♪
♪ you all seem to worship me ♪
♪ You don't understand a word I've said ♪
♪ but you treat me like royalty ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm the Queen of Mars ♪
♪ I was invisible on Earth ♪
♪ It only took a magic portal to Mars ♪
♪ To give me some self-worth ♪
(music continues)
Phineas: Whoo-hoo! Follow that music, Ferb.
(Shows Major Monogram with Cindy)
Major Monogram: I'm standing here with Cindy, an animated member of our studio audience.
Irving: (pushes Cindy aside) Phineas and Ferb rock! Wooooo!
Major Monogram: Okay then, let's throw it over to my partner in crime. Not that I would perpetrate a crime with him of course, I'd never... (at Carl) Carl! Who wrote these cue cards?
Carl: Agent M, sir.
(Camera pans to Agent M, who's typing on a typewriter)
Doofenshmirtz: What's that all about? He's using a typewriter. When was the last time you saw someone using a typewriter? What is this, 1987?
Major Monogram: Well...
Doofenshmirtz: You realize that most of the kids watching this show have never even seen a typewriter, right?
Major Monogram: We're on a budget.
Doofenshmirtz: So you went to an antique store...
Major Monogram: Moving on. Number eight; roll tape!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, so you got tape, you're not just using film, or-or hand shadows...
(Song #8: Ain't Got Rhythm)
Phineas: ♪ So, you're saying that you don't have rhythm ♪
♪ but listen what you're doing right there ♪
♪ With that stamp and a book ♪
♪ you got a real nice look ♪
♪ Sounds to me like you've got ♪
♪ rhythm to spare ♪
Sherman "Swampy": ♪ I have no idea what you're talking about ♪
♪ I have as much rhythm as that chair ♪
♪ What happened to me was a tragedy ♪
♪ but I don't have to be a millionaire ♪
♪ Look, I got a sweet deal going on here ♪
♪ I got all the books that I can read ♪
♪ All these sweet old ladies and this carpet from the 80's ♪
♪ What more could a librarian need? ♪
Woman: Ssh!
Swampy: ♪ Besides, I ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ No, I ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ Said I ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ I ain't got rhythm ♪
Phineas: ♪ You're kidding me right, y-you're kidding me ♪
♪ Don't you see what you were doing right then? ♪
♪ That's a wicked groove you were starting to move ♪
♪ Mister, you've got rhythm times ten ♪
Swampy: ♪ I think perhaps that you're not listening ♪
♪ I find it tedious to repeat ♪
♪ It's no big crime, ♪
♪ I just can't keep time ♪
♪ I'm telling you I lost the beat ♪
♪ I don't need my face on t-shirts ♪
♪ Or hit a power-chord guitar ♪
♪ They were screaming my name ♪
♪ I guess it's a shame ♪
♪ But I don't need to be a rock star ♪
♪ Besides, I ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ No, I ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ Said I ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ I ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ I ain't got rhythm ♪
Phineas: ♪ Sounds like rhythm to me ♪
Swampy: ♪ No, I ain't got rhythm ♪
Phineas: ♪ Seems like they all agree ♪
Swampy: ♪ Said I ain't got rhythm ♪
Phineas: ♪ But you're laying down some funky syncopation! ♪
Swampy: ♪ I ain't got rhythm ♪
Phineas: ♪ But you got that beat ♪
Swampy: ♪ No, I ain't got rhythm ♪
Phineas: ♪ Look at them, they're stomping their feet ♪
Swampy: ♪ Said I ain't got rhythm ♪
Phineas: ♪ It's time for you to rock a brand new generation ♪
Library patrons: ♪ Brand new generation ♪
Phineas and Swampy: ♪ Gonna rock a brand new generation ♪
Swampy: ♪ Because I ain't got rhythm! ♪
Woman: Ugh! Would you just go join the band?
(Music style switches to a swing tune)
Library patrons: ♪ Ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ Ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ Ain't got rhythm ♪
♪ Ain't got rhythm ♪
(Drum solo)
Swampy: Hey, I got rhythm!
Doofenshmitz: Okay, so I figured I couldn't come here empty-handed, so I brought a little something for all of us to enjoy! Behold, the Music Video Clip-inator!
(Crowd oohs)
Doofenshmirtz: You see, when I was a small boy, my parents would never let me watch music videos...
Major Monogram: No no no! We don't have time for an emotionally scarring back-story.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, maybe I should give you an emotionally scarring front-story!
(Doofenshmirtz walks off)
Major Monogram: Okay, that doesn't even make any sense.
(Camera pans out to show Doofenshmirtz in a monster truck)
Doofenshmirtz: It doesn't have to, I got a monster truck! Wooohooo!
(Drives off, Monogram stares for a second)
Major Monogram: Video number-
(Doofenshmirtz drives past, cutting him off)
Doofenshmirtz: Number 7!
Major Monogram: (wincing in pain) That was my foot!
(Song #7: I Love You Mom)
Candace: ♪ Mom, it's your birthday ♪
♪ Thanks for all the care and love you give ♪
Phineas: Nice song, sis.
Ferb: (Ding)
Candace: ♪ Not to mention the meals ♪
♪ And times I get kind of nervous ♪
Phineas: Come on!
Candace: ♪ And forget to tell you how I feel ♪
Boys: ♪ (Shoo-be-doo, shoo-be-doo) ♪
Candace: ♪ I'm a little high-strung ♪
♪ It's just because I'm young ♪
♪ Mom, I adore ya ♪
♪ And I'll do anything for ya ♪
♪ Although my brothers make me frantic ♪
♪ With every single crazy antic ♪
♪ And when I'm bouncin' off the walls ♪
♪ You're the one who stays calm ♪
Boys: ♪ (You're the one who stays calm) ♪
Candace: ♪ Because you love me for who I am ♪
♪ I'll always love you, Mom ♪
♪ (Ooh) ♪
(Crowd applauding)
Doofenshmirtz: What Francis doesn't know is that this isn't just a Music Video Clip-inator, it's really a Music Video Mind-Control-inator! AHAHAHAHAHAHA- (Notices crowd, maniacal music stops abruptly) Oh... I didn't say Mind-Control-inator, I said... Mimes control my gators! See, look over there! (Pan out to see two mimes performing in front of two alligators) And you thought I was making it up! Now, onto video number 6!
(Song #6: E.V.I.L. B.O.Y.S.)
Linda: Candace. Have you been near the wild parsnips again?
Candace: (deep-voiced) Yes, but you gotta see what Phineas and Ferb are doing.
Linda: What is it now?
Candace: ♪ Those boys are always up to something ♪
♪ And it's bringing me to tears ♪
♪ 'Cause just before you get home ♪
♪ It always just magically disappears ♪
♪ Those boys are evil! ♪
♪ But before you get home they somehow always clean up the mess ♪
Vivian: Testify, Candace, testify!
Candace: ♪ Those boys are evil! ♪
Let me spell it out for you, Mom:
♪ E-V-I-L B-O-Y-S! ♪
♪ They built a roller coaster ♪
♪ And a beach in the backyard ♪
♪ Drove cattle through the city ♪
♪ And messed up the boulevard ♪
♪ They took me back in time ♪
♪ When we went to that museum ♪
♪ They built 50-foot tree house robots ♪
♪ But still you didn't see them ♪
♪ Those boys are evil ♪
♪ Their crazy shenanigans cause me all kinds of distress ♪
♪ Those boys are evil ♪
♪ Sing it with me! ♪
♪ E-V-I-L B-O-Y-S! ♪
♪ I know you think they're saints ♪
♪ But Mom, I'm here to tell ♪
♪ Those B-O-Y-S, they're just E-V-I-L ♪
♪Those boys are evil ♪
♪They're making me feel like my head's in a hydraulic press ♪
♪ And that don't feel too good! ♪
♪ Those boys are evil ♪
Everybody!
Women: ♪ E-V-I-L B-O-Y-S! ♪
Candace: That's what I'm talking about!
Women: ♪ E-V-I-L B-O-Y-S! ♪
Candace: ♪ That's right those boys are ♪
♪ Evil little boys! ♪
Major Monogram: That was stupid fresh!! I'm making that one my ringtone for sure! And right now, I've got a surprise for all who have youngsters, a special guest who's got his own death theme song.
Audience members: ♪ Doo-bee doo-bee doo-bah, doo-bee doo-bee doo-bah! ♪
Major Monogram: That's right, it's P to the P, P-squared, or as I like to call him, Agent P!
♪ Doo-bee doo-bee doo-bah- ♪
(Perry jumps through the window)
♪ -Perry! ♪
(Cut to Flynn-Fletcher backyard, Phineas and Ferb are working on a project)
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?
Ferb: He's doing a special guest appearance on a music video clip show.
Phineas: Hmm. Well, good for him.
(Cut back to studio)
Major Monogram: So, Agent P, what are your thoughts on the videos we've seen tonight?
(Perry chatters)
Major Monogram: Well, thanks for coming.
(Perry jumps back through the window; crowd laughs)
Major Monogram: And I think that sets up our next music video perfectly. Ladies and gentlemen, video number 5!
(Song #5: S.I.M.P. (Squirrels In My Pants) Extended Version)
Street Performer 1: Somebody, anybody, everybody, scream!
Candace: (off screen) Ahhh!! (jumps onscreen) There are squirrels in my pants!
Street Performer 1: That girl's got some serious squirrels in her pants!
Candace: There are squirrels in my pants!
Street Performer 1: ♪ Tell me what's makin' you jump like that! ♪
Background singers: ♪ S-I-M-P, Squirrels in my pants! ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ Ain't got no chickens, Ain't got no rats... ♪
Background singers: ♪ S-I-M-P, ♪
Candace/Background singers: ♪ Squirrels in my pants! ♪
Street Performer 1/Background singers: ♪ S to the I to the M to the P, ♪
♪ Then maybe you can be movin' like me... ♪
Street Performer 2: ♪ Step right over and watch me put it down... ♪
Candace: ♪ Squirrels! Squirrels! ♪
Background singers: ♪ (S to the I to the M to the P) ♪
Street Performer 2: ♪ Step right over and watch me put it... ♪
Background singers/Street Performer 2: ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Street Performer 2: ♪ Who you got back home, waterin' your plants? ♪
Background singers: ♪ S-I-M-P, squirrels in my pants! ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ How can I qualify for government grants? ♪
Background singers: ♪ S-I-M-P, squirrels in my pants! ♪
Street Performer 2: ♪ Yeah... Hypnotize me, put me in a trance... ♪
Background singers: ♪ S-I-M-P, squirrels in my pants! ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ Got an Aunt Florence livin' in France... ♪
Background singers: ♪ She can't see the- ♪
Candace: Squirrels in my pants!
Street Performer 1: ♪ Step right over and watch me put it down... ♪
Candace: ♪ Squirrels! Squirrels! ♪
Background singers: ♪ (S to the I to the M to the P,) ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ Step right over and watch me put it... ♪
Background singers/Street Performer 1: ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ If you wanna know how I'm doin' this dance ♪
Background singers: ♪ S-I-M-P, squirrels in my pants! ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ There's somethin' in my trousers, you know it ain't ants! ♪
Background singers: ♪ S-I-M-P, Squirrels in my pants! ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ Yeah... Proletariat, bourgeoisie! ♪
Background singers: ♪ Baby you don't need an academic degree! ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ Everybody's smellin' my potpourri! ♪
Background singers: ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ Step right over and watch me put it down... ♪
Candace: ♪ Squirrels! Squirrels! ♪
Background singers:' ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ Step right over and watch me put it... ♪
Background singer/Street Performer 1/Street Performer 2: ♪ Down, down, on the ground... ♪
♪ 'Cause you know I got it goin' on! ♪
Background singer: (S...) ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
(I...) ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
(M...) ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ If your pockets are empty get a cash advance! ♪
Candace: ♪ Squirrels! Squirrels! ♪
Background singers: ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Background singer: (S...) ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Street Performer 2: ♪ If you're losin' your hair get yourself implants!
Background singer: (I..) ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Street Performer 2: ♪ If you're wrestlin' a bear then you ain't got a chance! ♪
Background singer: (M...) ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ Old Uncle Freddy just rages and rants! ♪
Background singer/Street Performer 1/Street Performer 2: ♪ Ain't about love! Ain't about romance! I got squirrels in my pants! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Don't go away, folks. When we come back, we'll have the final four. (He pauses and holds up three fingers. He realizes his mistake and holds up four. The crowd laughs) Plus, a special video that will ENSLAVE THE TRI-STATE AREA!! HAHAHA... I mean... engrave my pie-plate carrier! (pauses and picks up pie plate carrier) Look, it's silver! It was a wedding gift. I got it in the divorce! That's right ladies, I'm available!

Part II
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, you're getting paid for this? I have to do this for community service! I gotta do like, 200 hours!
Major Monogram: This show is only half an hour long.
Doofenshmirtz: I have to do this 400 times?
Major Monogram: Oh, and we're back. We're counting down the top 10 Phineas and Ferb music videos from Season 1, as picked by you, the viewers.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, you are definitely buying lunch.
Major Monogram: So, here's a little number I like to call four.
(Song #4: Little Brothers)
Candace: I kind of miss the little guys. It's as if there was a whole other side to our relationship that I never noticed before.
Stacy: ♪ Little brother, ♪
♪ I remember when you first came home, ♪
♪ Then came another, ♪
♪ Little brother of our own. ♪
♪ Even when you break my toys, ♪
♪ You will always be my ♪
♪ Little brothers, ♪
♪ 'Cause you're younger, we're related, and you're boys ♪
♪ Even when you're making too much noise, ♪
♪ You will always be my ♪
♪ Little brothers, ♪
♪ 'Cause you're younger, we're related, and you're boys ♪
♪ Little brothers, ♪
♪ Little brothers, ♪
♪ Little brothers... ♪
Candace: Uh, Stace, you're kind of bumming me out with the song there.
Major Monogram: Tubular. If I'd been wearing socks, they would've rocked right off.
Doofenshmirtz: You're not really wearing socks?
Major Monogram: Well, but not at the moment. (at Carl) Carl, how are my socks coming?
(Camera pans to Carl, who's drying Monogram's socks with a hair dryer)
Carl: Almost done, sir.
Major Monogram: Well, here's video number 3.
(Song #3: Busted Extended Version)
Vanessa: ♪ I can see the things you're doin' ♪
♪ And you think that I'm naïve ♪
♪ But when I get the goods on you ♪
♪ She'll finally believe ♪
Candace: ♪ Well she says it's all just drama ♪
♪ But every bubble's got to pop ♪
♪ She's gonna see just what you're doin' ♪
Both: ♪ And then you're finally gonna have to stop! ♪
♪ Don't think you're gonna win this time ♪
♪ 'Cause you better believe I'm gonna drop a dime on you ♪
♪ I'll get ya! (yeah) ♪
♪ I'll get ya! ♪
♪ And when I do, you're gonna be busted! ♪
♪ (Busted!) ♪
♪ I don't wanna put the hurt on you ♪
♪ But you better believe me ♪
♪ When I tell you that I finally got the dirt on you, ♪
♪ You're busted. ♪
♪ (Busted!) ♪
Vanessa: ♪ Yeah, she's finally gonna see the light, ♪
Both: ♪ This is how it's gonna be, ♪
♪ When she finds out that I was always right, ♪
♪ You're busted! ♪
Both: ♪ There's a new cop on the beat, ♪
♪ And I'm bringing down the heat, ♪
Candace: ♪ My eyes are wise to all your lies, ♪
♪ 'Cause you're not that discreet. ♪
Vanessa: ♪ And I don't care what you've heard, ♪
Both: ♪ 'Cause there's one six letter word, ♪
Vanessa: ♪ It's gonna set me free, ♪
Candace: ♪ (Gonna set me free) ♪
Vanessa: ♪ It starts with a "B"! ♪
Candace: ♪ (Starts with a "B"!) ♪
Both: ♪ It goes B-U-S-T-E-D! ♪
♪ You are busted! ♪
♪ (Busted!) ♪
Both: ♪ I don't wanna put the hurt on you ♪
♪ But you better believe me, ♪
♪ When I tell you that I finally got the dirt on you, ♪
♪ (I'll get ya!) ♪
♪ You're busted. ♪
♪ (Busted!) ♪
♪ (Don't think you're gonna win this time.) ♪
Vanessa: ♪ Yeah, she's finally gonna see the light. ♪
♪ (Drop a dime on you.) ♪
Both: ♪ This is how it's gonna be, ♪
♪ When she finds out that I was always right, ♪
♪ (I'll get ya! I'll get ya!) ♪
♪ You're busted! ♪
Major Monogram: Fantastical. (at Doofenshmirtz) Say, Doofenshmirtz, what'cha working on over here?
Doofenshmirtz: Your doom. (drops a cage on Monogram)
Major Monogram: Great googly-moogly. (at Carl) Carl, get me Agent P.
Carl: (off-screen) He's in the green room, sir.
Major Monogram: Well, that should be easy then. Please enjoy music video number 2.
(Song #2: Backyard Beach)
Dancer: All hail Queen Wahini!
Candace: I can't believe it!
Ferb: ♪ Listen up people and I'll teach ya ♪
♪ 'Bout Phineas and Ferb ♪
♪ And the backyard beach yeah. ♪
♪ Every morning, Phineas, he gonna say ♪
Singers: Say!
Ferb: "Brother, whatcha gonna do today?"
♪ Now you see we're having fun ♪
♪ Playin' under the sun, ♪
♪ And get in line, get in line ♪
♪ 'Cause the wet skis runnin' ♪
♪ A backyard beach, a backyard beach ♪
♪ Nothing's outta reach, ♪
♪ we got the backyard beach ♪
♪ You can change in the broken hut, ♪
♪ Drink out of a coconut, ♪
♪ Three games for a token, but the rest is free ♪
♪ You got skiin', parasailin', ♪
♪ Surfin' and a-flailin', ♪
♪ Your contacts need saline, ♪
♪ Or else you can't see ♪
♪ Got the backyard beach, a backyard beach ♪
♪ Nothing's out of reach, we got the backyard beach ♪
♪ Got the backyard beach, a backyard beach, ♪
♪ Don't fall into the breach, got the backyard beach! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (laughing maniacally) Now my ultimate triumph is in hand! Prepare to be hypnotized by a video scientifically created to get stuck in your heads, forever!
(Song: My Name is Doof)
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ My name is Doof, ♪
♪ And you'll do what I say, ♪
♪ Whoop whoop! ♪
♪ My name is Doof, ♪
♪ And you'll do what I say, ♪
♪ Whoop whoop! ♪
Major Monogram: Noooooo!
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ My name is Doof, ♪
♪ And you'll do what I say, ♪
♪ Whoop whoop! ♪
Singular Victim: ♪ His name is Doof, ♪
♪ And I'll do what he says, ♪
♪ Whoop whoop! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ My name is- ♪
(Perry crashes in)
Major Monogram: Avert your ears, Agent P! Cover your ears!
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ My name is Doof, ♪
♪ And you'll do what I say, ♪
♪ Whoop whoop! ♪
♪ My name is Doof, ♪
♪ And you'll do what I say, ♪
♪ Whoop whoop! ♪
♪ My name-- ♪
Doofenshmirtz: No, no, no, no, oh, get back in there! Wait why isn't..? What? Perry the Platypus? I swear, of all the aquatic mammals I hang with, you are truly the most uncooperative!
Crowd of Victims: ♪ His name is Doof, ♪
♪ And we'll do what he says, ♪
♪ Whoop whoop! ♪
♪ His name is Doof, ♪
♪ And we'll do what he says, ♪
♪ Whoop whoop! ♪
♪ His name is Doof, ♪
♪ And we'll do what he says, ♪
♪ Whoop whoop! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: It's working! It's working!
Major Monogram: Oh no, Agent P, it's stuck in their heads. We need something even more catchy to counteract it. But what could we...
(Perry opens the curtains, revealing a monitor)
Agent P? Agent P, this is no time for decorating. (looks at monitor) Ohh, I see.
Doofenshmirtz: No! Not the number one requested Phineas and Ferb song! New extended version, never before seen. Not that!
(Song #1: Gitchee Gitchee Goo Extended Version)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, the Ferbettes! I'm Phineas and this is Ferb, and we're gonna sing a song.
Phineas: ♪ Bow, chicka, bow-wow! ♪
Candace/Ferbettes: ♪ That's what my baby says! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Mow-mow-mow! ♪
Candace/Ferbettes: ♪ And my heart starts pumping! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Chicka-chicka choo wap! ♪
Candace/Ferbettes: ♪ Never gonna stop! ♪
All: ♪ Gitchee gitchee goo means that I love you! ♪
Phineas: ♪ My baby's got her own way of talking, ♪
♪ Whenever she says something sweet. ♪
♪ And she knows it's my world she's a-rockin', ♪
♪ Though my vocabulary's incomplete! ♪
♪ I know it may sound confusing, ♪
Ferbettes: ♪ Ooh! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Sometimes I wish she'd give it to me straight! ♪
♪ But I never feel like I'm losing, ♪
Candace/Ferbettes: ♪ Losing! ♪
Phineas: ♪ When I take the time to translate! ♪
All: ♪ Here's what I'm talkin' 'bout! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Bow, chicka, bow-wow! ♪
Ferbettes: ♪ That's what my baby says! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Mow-mow-mow! ♪
Ferbettes: ♪ And my heart starts pumping! ♪
Phineas: ♪ (Oh) Chicka-chicka, choo wap! ♪
Ferbettes: ♪ Never gonna stop! ♪
All: ♪ Gitchee gitchee goo means that I love you! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Well I don't know what to do! ♪
Candace: ♪ I don't know what to do. ♪
Phineas: ♪ But I think I'm getting through! ♪
Candace: ♪ I think I'm getting through. ♪
Phineas: ♪ 'Cause when I say I love you... ♪
Ferbettes: ♪ When I say I love you! ♪
Phineas: ♪ She says, "I gitchee gitchee goo you, too!" ♪
Candace/Ferbettes: ♪ Gitchee gitchee goo you, too! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Gitchee gitchee goo you, too! ♪
Candace/Ferbettes: ♪ Gitchee gitchee goo you, too! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Don't need a dictionary! ♪
♪ Bow, chicka, bow-wow! ♪
Candace/Ferbettes: ♪ That's what my baby says! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Mow-mow-mow! ♪
Candace/Ferbettes: ♪ And my heart starts pumping! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Chicka-chicka, choo wap! ♪
Candace/Ferbettes: ♪ Never gonna stop! ♪
All: ♪ Gitchee gitchee goo means that I love you! ♪
Phineas: ♪ I said, a-bow, chicka, bow-wow! ♪
Candace/Ferbettes: ♪ That's what my baby says! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Mow-mow-mow! ♪
Candace/Ferbettes: ♪ And my heart starts pumping! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Chicka-chicka, choo wap! ♪
Candace/Ferbettes: ♪ Never gonna stop! ♪
All: ♪ Gitchee gitchee goo means that I love you! ♪
♪ Gitchee gitchee goo means that I love you! ♪
♪ Gitchee gitchee goo means... ♪
♪ That I love you baby, baby, baby! ♪
Ferb: ♪ Baby-baby-baby-baby. ♪
All: ♪ Gitchee gitchee goo means that I love you! ♪
Major Monogram: Great job, Agent P. You stopped Doofenshmirtz, saved the Tri-State Area, and finished the music video countdown. (at the camera) Well, thanks for tuning in, folks. We'll see ya next time. (at Doofenshmirtz, who is now trapped in the cage) Say good night, Doofenshmirtz.
Doofenshmirtz: You know, someday I'll get out of this cage, but your name will still be Francis.

End credits
(Song: S.I.M.P. Squirrels In My Pants)
Street Performer 1: ♪ Step right over and watch me put it down... ♪
Candace: ♪ Squirrels! Squirrels! ♪
Background singers:' ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ Step right over and watch me put it... ♪
Background singer/Street Performer 1/Street Performer 2: ♪ Down, down, on the ground... ♪
♪ 'Cause you know I got it goin' on! ♪
Background singer: (S...) ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
(I...) ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
(M...) ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ If your pockets are empty get a cash advance! ♪
Candace: ♪ Squirrels! Squirrels! ♪
Background singers: ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Background singer: (S...) ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Street Performer 2: ♪ If you're losin' your hair get yourself implants!
Background singer: (I..) ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Street Performer 2: ♪ If you're wrestlin' a bear then you ain't got a chance! ♪
Background singer: (M...) ♪ S to the I to the M to the P! ♪
Street Performer 1: ♪ Old Uncle Freddy just rages and rants! ♪
Background singer/Street Performer 1/Street Performer 2: ♪ Ain't about love! Ain't about romance! I got squirrels in my pants! ♪



(Scene opens at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Phineas: I don't know about you, Ferb, but I think bubbles have a great sense of humor. Look at what that bubble's doing to my face. (laughs) You make me laugh out loud, bubble.
(Ferb blows a bubble to look at his face. The reflection of his face turns into Baljeet's.)
Baljeet: Hello!
(At first Ferb is alarmed, but then the bubble pops, revealing the real Baljeet standing behind it.)
Phineas: Hey, Baljeet.
Baljeet: What are you guys doing?
Phineas: We're blowing bubbles and relaxing.
Baljeet: Oh, I remember being relaxed, but that was before I had this! (shows Phineas and Ferb a schedule)
Phineas: That looks like a color coded schedule.
Baljeet: That's because it is. Every minute of my entire day is planned out right here. Remember how you told me to seize the day? Well, consider it seized!
Phineas: That's not exactly what I meant.
Buford: Hey, is it time for me yet?
Baljeet: Not quite. (brief pause) Okay, now. (Buford licks his finger and sticks it in Baljeet's ear)
Phineas: Do you have any extra time for a bubble?
Baljeet: Uh, I guess I have time for one.
Buford: Oh, oh! Can I blow a huge one so I can crawl inside it and float around like a little woodland pixie? (stops, realizing his mistake) Did I just say that out loud?
Phineas: Yes, yes you did. But that actually sounds fun minus the pixie part. Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! There's no better way to see Danville than from inside a huge bubble.
Buford: I wanna float around! (again realizing his mistake) Like men.
Phineas: Wanna come, Baljeet?
Baljeet: My schedule is extremely tight. I doubt I even have a second to answer your question. Maybe if I move my polka recital back. Okay.
Phineas: Great! So you're coming?
Baljeet: No! I moved polka back so I could answer your question! It would take some major rearranging, but I think I can at least come and watch you make the bubble.
Phineas: Awesome! Hey, where's Perry?
Baljeet: Haha! Right on time! I had Perry's absence on my schedule!

(Perry enters his lair. Lights are off and everything is black)
Major Monogram: Shh! Quiet, Carl! He's coming!
(Lights come on, revealing the room filled with balloons)
Major Monogram/Carl: Surprise!
Carl: Alright!
Major Monogram: Happy Birthday, Agent P! (blows into kazoo) (awkward pause) It's not your birthday, is it? (Perry shakes his head) Are we close?
Carl: Told ya!
Major Monogram: Put a sock in it, Carl! (clears throat) I, uh, was a bit too busy planning your party, so I'm not sure what Doofenshmirtz is up too, but I am sure that it's no good. Get to the bottom of it!

Linda: So, Candace, are you ready to do some practice driving for your permit?
Candace: I'm easing my way into the driver's seat. I start with what's familiar and slide into the new.
Linda: Well start sliding. We've got errands to run.
Candace: Okay, you drive!
Linda: Your dad says you're already good at parallel parking.
Candace: That was in the backyard! That's way different than the open road!
Linda: Candace, I thought you wanted to be the first of your friends to have a driver's license.
Candace: Okay, I'm sliding.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
(Perry enters the building)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus, I'm so glad you're here. I did get your invite to your birthday party over the internet, and naturally, I couldn't go, since it was most likely a trap. Anyway, I got you this. (hands Perry a birthday card) It's just a card, but here you go. (card traps Perry) Surprise! Haha! I finally figured out why my evil schemes always fail. You see, I am totally, completely, unlikeable. No, really, so I asked myself, "what are the two most liked things on the planet?" The answer? Country music and western music. So now, I'm bringing them together for the first time. I'm calling it "Country and Western Music." I know, I know. I'm brilliant, right?

(Phineas and Ferb are at the park working on the bubble design)
Phineas: Great bubble design, Ferb. Now all we need is the missing bubble ingredient.
Isabella: Hey guys. Whatcha doin'?
Baljeet: Making changes to my schedule.
Phineas: We're building a machine to make the biggest, most durable bubble ever.
Baljeet: Oh, right. Nobody ever asks what Baljeet is doing.
Phineas: We have just about everything we need for our durable bubble, but if you guys wanna help out, we still need some sap from a maracanut tree.
Isabella: Yeah, we can definitely do that.
Phineas: Excellent! While they're doing that, we can finish the design on the transponder. See you girls back at the field!

Doofenshmirtz: I know what you're thinking, "But Doof, you have a terrible singing voice! Well, feast your eyes on this little baby! (unveils a cowboy hat) Ta-da! I call it the Yodelinator! Pretty cool, eh? Oh, right. You just think it's a big cowboy hat. It's so much more! (presses a button on the hat) See? Huh? See? It's designed to make my singing voice sweet and mellifluous. So, my first gig is in an hour. Come on, you can help me hand out fliers. Everyone's going to (singsong) love me!

(The car is at an intersection; a semi-truck behind them is honking its horn impatiently)
Linda: You can do this, Candace! Just look into the turn and ease your foot off the brake.
Candace: I'm l-l-l-l-looking into the turn....(gasps as she sees Phineas, Ferb, and the rest of the kids with the bubble machine in the park) (just as a bus with two monsters on the side pulls up, blocking the view) Mom, look! Phineas and Ferb!
Linda: Candace, I don't find that funny.
'Candace: 'No! Behind the bus! (honks horn) They were building some kind of contraption! I'll show you! (swerves left)
Linda: Oh good. Now we're-- Candace, slow down!
Phineas: Nice work as usual, Ferb! All we need now is the final ingredient.
Isabella: Hey, Phineas! We got the sap you guys needed. Here! (hands him a vial)
Phineas: Thanks! (pours sap into bubble machine. Ferb pushes a button and turns a valve. The machine begins blowing the giant bubble, which slowly encases the gang as Phineas speaks) At this stage, the maracanut sap isn't fully congealed. So we can pass through the semi-permeable membrane with ease. (bubble walls give way and he is inside the bubble) Voila!
Isabella: Girls, I think we just earned our Passing-Through-A-Semi-Permeable-Membrane patches! (Fireside Girls cheer)
(Linda and Candace pull up to the park entrance, but the kids are now gone)
Candace: See, there they...... (they see only the machine)
Linda: Perhaps I should get tired of asking this, but....what am I supposed to be looking at?
Candace: Ugh! They were right there in the...(sees the bubble floating behind a building) Hold onto something, Mom. (floors the accelerator)
(In the bubble)
Baljeet: Well, that was very entertaining, but that is all the time I have scheduled for. (notices how high they are) Oh, wait. You are already airborne. And I am already still with you. (begins to panic a little) I do not believe this! My schedule is totally blown! I am going to miss my polka recital!
Buford: I've heard you. It's a small loss.
(In the car; Candace still has the accelerator floored) 
Linda: Candace, trash cans again!
(Candace crashes into the cans and knocks them over)
Candace: Oops, heh heh. My bad. Where'd they go? (sticks her head out the window to see them floating away)
Linda: Candace, I think we've all had enough of your driving!
Candace: Not now, Mom! I have to get this car into the sky! (drives at full speed again)
Linda: (screaming) Candaaaace!
(In the bubble)
Baljeet: Oh, no! How long are we going to be up here?
Phineas: (reclining) Awhile.
Baljeet: And...and how do you even STEER this thing?
Phineas: We're at the mercy of the breeze.
Baljeet: (laughs nervously) Sure, when you say it like that, it sounds relaxing.
Phineas: Hey everybody! Downdraft! (They float down and pass under a bridge)
Baljeet: Oh no, look out! Power lines!
Isabella: Girls, you know what to do!
Isabella and the Fireside Girls: Leeeeaaaannnn! (they all slam against the side of the bubble and it swerves, avoiding the power lines. Everyone cheers)
Baljeet: Cactus garden!
Isabella: Lean! (this time, everyone slams against the side and the bubble swerves into an alleyway)
Baljeet: PUBLIC ART!
Gretchen: With our angle of descent, leaning will be ineffectual!
Everybody else: What?
Gretchen: We're gonna craaash!
Baljeet: Oh no! I knew I should not have forsaken the rigid beauty of my candy-colored schedule!
(Baljeet begins hyperventilating and the bubble begins growing steadily)
Phineas: The bubble is expanding. It's Baljeet's breathing! (Baljeet keeps going) It's blowing the bubble up! Everybody breathe heavy like Baljeet!
Fireside Girls and Isabella: Yes sir!
(Everyone hyperventilates and the bubble floats high over the buildings)
Phineas: We're doing it! (Everyone cheers) Baljeet, you totally saved us!
Baljeet: When in danger, I always hyperventilate.

(At the park concert)
Cowboy singer: Thank you, everyone! Thank you very much!
Doofenshmirtz: I'm next, Perry the Platypus. After this concert, I will be the most well liked man in the Tri-State Area!
(He goes onstage and begins strumming his guitar)
(Song: Yodel Odel Obey Me)
♪ Let me tell you my evil scheme ♪
♪ I'm gonna enslave your minds with a predictable melody ♪
♪ An uncomplicated rhyme, but if I asked you to, you'd even change your name to Amy ♪
♪ 'Cause you're gonna yodel-odel-odel obey me ♪
♪ You'll be my obedient mindless slaves, and nobody will blame me ♪
(Perry pulls out a Happy Birthday card)
Person 1: I like that guy!
Person 2: Yeah! Let's do whatever he says!
♪ Because you'll yodel-odel-odel-odel obey me ♪
(Perry slashes through the streamers tying him up with the card and throws it aside.)
♪ You'll yodel-odel-odel-odel-odel- ♪
(Perry pulls out a birthday noisemaker and blows into it. It uncurls and knocks the hat from Doof's head)
(now in normal scratchy voice) ♪ -obey me ♪
Person 2: He's terrible!
♪ Yodel-odel-odel-odel-odel obey me (x3) ♪
Person 3: Yeah! It stinks so bad I wanna break somethin'!
(He clenches his teeth so hard that they break)
Person 3: That really wasn't worth it.
(Everyone gets up and leaves while chatting)
Person 2: You can't mix country and western! They's two completely different types of music!
Person 4: That song was horrible!
Person 5: Yeah, those lyrics was way too on the nose!
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, that wasn't as successful as I'd hoped.... (grabs jet-pack and puts it on) but at least I can beat a hasty retreat before I'm too humiliated!
(He revs up the jet-pack and it shoots into the sky, tearing his clothes off and leaving him in his underwear and socks. The underwear is patterned with Agent P heads. Agent P notices this and gives him a dumb look)
Doofenshmirtz: Huh? (laughs nervously) For your information, I had these way before I met you. (jet-pack shoots by and he walks away) (Halfheartedly) Okay, see you tomorrow.
(In the car)
Linda: Candace, watch where you're going!
Candace: They're around here somewhere. (she sees the bubble) Ooh! Ooh! (laughs crazily) There they are! Headed for the old drawbridge! You're mine!
(The jet-pack slams into the back of the car and starts rocketing it forward)
Linda: Candace, stop!
Candace: I can't! (the drawbridge opens and they rocket into the sky. Linda screams and covers her eyes. The bubble floats in front of them) There they are! I told you! I--Mom, open your eyes!
Linda: (terrified) Not until we're back on the ground!
Candace: (they shoot past the bubble) Mooooom!
Phineas: That was Candace driving.
Ferb: Her car control has gotten a lot better.
(The car lands)
Candace: Mom, we're back on the ground! Ahhhhhhh! (eye twitches)
Linda: Okay Candace, now just gently...apply...the brake.
Candace: I'm tryiiiiing!
(Back in the bubble...)
Baljeet: Wow. This whole relaxation thing is...well, relaxing.
(Back in the car, Candace's eye twitches again)
Linda: Candace, at least take your foot off the gas.
Candace: (enraged) Oh, you think? You think?! (lifts her foot) There! How's that?! Is that better!?!
(The jetpack's flames go out and Linda screams. The car turns and Candace hits the break, and the car parallel parks near a playground)
Linda: Well, guess your father was right. You do have parallel parking down.
(The bubble containing the kids floats above them, Candace sees it)
Candace: Look! There they are!
Linda: Candace, I can't see anything. "They" who?
Candace: The boys! They're up in there in the -- (the bubble pops, releasing the kids onto the rides) Ugh.
Linda: Oh, hi boys!
Phineas: (riding a bouncy animal) Hi, Mom! Nice parking, Candace.
Candace: What?! No! It's not -- but they were up -- (leans on the car wheel, setting off the horn)
Phineas: Well, Ferb, I guess we should consider this day: Seized. (sees Perry) Oh, there you are, Perry.
(Perry chatters)



(Scene opens up showing Isabella sleeping, then the alarm clock goes off.)
Isabella: There you are, Isabella! (Laughs) I made a funny. It's always humorous when one refers to oneself in the third-person. You try it, Pinky.
(Pinky barks)
Isabella: Yeah, not a hard and fast rule, I guess. What's that? I hear a sash calling me to earn it some more new patches. Come on, Pinky.
(Scene shifts to the Fireside House)
Gretchen: Sesquipedalian.
(All of the Fireside Girls shrug.)
Milly: Here's your "Saying a Word No One Else in the Room Knows" patch! Does anyone else want to try?
Gretchen: Shh! Someone's coming! Defense positions.
(The Fireside Girls are preparing for defense.)
(Isabella knocks on the door in a pattern.)
Gretchen: Look alive, people! It's our fearless leader.
(Gretchen unbolts the door, Isabella and Pinky enter.)
Isabella: Hey, guys, what'cha doin'?
Holly: Earning patches!
Isabella: So, did you guys decide what patch to get today? 'Cause I have a suggestion!
Adyson: Let me guess. The "Let's Help Phineas and Ferb" patch?
Isabella: It's called the "Help Thy Neighbor" patch, Adyson. Don't make up patch names.
(Cut to Milly and Ginger, who raises her hand.)
Ginger: I already have 52 of those.
Milly: I have 53. Remember, I went back one afternoon after everyone else went home.
Isabella: I know. Don't remind me.
Gretchen: You just want an excuse to see Phineas.
Isabella: The very thing I live for.
Adyson: All right, then! Let's go see what Phineas and Ferb are doing!
Ginger: Why don't we ever go see what Baljeet is doing?
Milly: Because we've done that before.
Holly: Yeah, and that patch wasn't worth it.
Isabella: Hey, where's Pinky?

(Scene shifts to Pinky, who jumps from behind a bush wearing a fedora to enter a hidden elevator. It's full, so he takes the second one and salutes Agent P on the way down.)
Wanda Acronym: Hello, Agent Pinky. Professor Poofenplotz has been making a barrage of inquiries about hairspray, of all things. It's all very suspicious. Suss it out and put the kibosh on it.
(Pinky barks)

(Scene shifts to the Danville Park)
Isabella: Hey, guys. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Well, to be perfectly honest, I don't know what I'm doing. I don't know what I've been doing. Always getting so wrapped up in these silly projects that I don't care about. It's you I care about, Isabella! (changes into a centaur and Isabella rides off on him) Can we be together forever and ever?
Isabella: Yeah! We can definitely do that.
Phineas: Excellent. (Record scratches and Isabella's fantasy fades away) While they're getting that, we can finish our designs on the transponder. See you girls back at the field.
Isabella: Okay, Phineas! Oh, my gosh. What did he say? What does he need? (Sighs) I was in Phineasland again.
Gretchen: We'll explain on the way, Chief. Right now, we have to find the rare maracanut tree, and earn our "Sap Collecting" patch.
(Camera pans to Milly and Ginger. Ginger earns herself the "I Just Saw a Cute Boy" patch.)
Milly: What's that patch for?
Ginger: It's the "I Just Saw a Cute Boy" patch.
Milly: Where?
Ginger: Duh! (points to Baljeet) That one over there with the color-coded schedule.
(A beat, then Milly rips the patch off.)

♪ Poofenplotz Evil is Crazy! ♪
(Song: Important to Look Your Best)
Poofenplotz: ♪ It's important to look your very best when you're doing your very worst. ♪
♪ And by that, I mean evil-uh. ♪
(Pinky arrives) Pinky the Chihuahua! So you thought you can sneak up on me? Stop shaking, you jittery little pest. (Holds Pinky, and shakes. She doesn't shake anymore after releasing.) Anyway. I woke up from my beauty sleep and thought to myself, "What the heck? Why not try to take over the world again?" But, as you know, Pinky, I can't very well take over the world until I'm drop-dead gorgeous! But I can't make myself beautiful, because I ran out of my favorite hair spray. It went a little something like this.
(Flashback)
Worker: Can I help you with something, ma'am?
Poofenplotz: Yes. Can you tell me where you've moved your Stiff Beauty hair spray?
Worker: Oh, I'm so sorry, ma'am. That product has been discontinued. As it turns out, only amusement park clowns used it. And ever since the old amusement park shut down, Stiff Beauty hasn't been selling.
Poofenplotz: Discontinued?
Worker: Discontinued.
Poofenplotz: So what you're saying is Stiff Beauty's no longer going to be sold.
Worker: Right. That's what "discontinued" means.
Poofenplotz: (after a pause) How about I discontinue YOU from this dimension!
(Eerie theme)
Worker: This so isn't worth minimum wage.
(Flashback ends)
Poofenplotz: The only supply of Stiff Beauty left in the world is at the old abandoned Old Abandoned Amusement Park. And I intend to use my Me-Mobile to get me there!
(Robot arm drops Pinky in a trash can)
(Trash can Clanging/Rattling)

(Scene shifts to the Fireside Girls)
Gretchen: According to this Fireside Girls book on dendrology, the maracanut tree is indigenous to mountain valley micro-climates. So it looks like we're heading in the right direction.
(Hard rock theme)
(Didgeridoo humming)
Isabella: Hi. Excuse me. Um, hello. Earth to hippie. (Imitates Didgeridoo reverb) Excu-u-u-u-u-u-use Me-e-e-e-e-e-e.
The Guru: Whoa! You just harmonized with me.
Fireside Girls: Oooh!
Isabella: Would you possibly know where the maracanut trees might be located?
The Guru: Indeed I do, my formidable little flower. Behold. (Shows tree stumps)
Isabella: Oh, no! What happened? Where did they all go?
The Guru: They were all chopped down so their sap could be used for... (Tears up) ...hair spray. Such a shame.
Isabella: So, there aren't any left?
The Guru: Don't fret, my pet. There happens to be one sole maracanut tree left in existence. It's at the old abandoned Old Abandoned Amusement Park over on the next hill.
Isabella: Did you just say "the old abandoned Old Abandoned Amusement Park"?
The Guru: Yes. The old abandoned Old Abandoned Amusement Park.
Isabella: "Old abandoned" twice?
The Guru: Yes.
Isabella: All right.
The Guru: Step up, little sister. Let me bestow upon you the Key of Wisdom. (Drops key) Bask in its glory!
(Song stops. It is a car key on a peace sign key chain.)
The Guru: Cool, huh?
Isabella: Um...
(The Guru disappears in a cloud of smoke)
Fireside Girls: He's gone!
Adyson: Wow.
Gretchen: No, he's not. He's right over there. (Points to The Guru, trying to make an escape quietly)
The Guru: Oh, uh... Hey! hey, hi... Hey, little sisters. See you on the flip side!
(Scene shifts to Candace and Linda)
Candace: So, Mom, am I doing great or what?
Linda: Well, "Or what." Candace. Trash cans!
(Candace runs into some trash cans, which knocks them over.)
(Pinky puts on his jet-pack and then leaves)

(Scene shifts to the Fireside Girls, who arrived at "The old abandoned Old Abandoned Amusement Park")
Isabella: Well, here we are, I guess. Oh, I get it! It was actually called "The Old Abandoned Amusement Park"! And now it's old and abandoned. Hence, "old abandoned" twice. Girls, we're goin' in. We've got a tree to find! (The girls race to various attractions in the park) Fireside Girls, report!
Katie: Nothing up here, Captain!
Gretchen: Ditto, Chief!
Holly: It just smells like feet in here.
Ginger: These clown lockers are just full of cheap hair spray!
Isabella: It has to be around here somewhere. Creepy roadside hippie gurus are generally reliable. Wait, I think I found it! (Points at a tall ride in the back of the park)
(The Fireside Girls gasp and run over to it)
Ginger: Yeah!
Milly: I think you're right, Chief.
Adyson: This should be it.
Gretchen: This must be it, Chief. I think you're right.
Isabella: (Reading a placard near the ride) "Stickiness is the most underrated of all the -nesses, and of all the stickinesses, the sap of the maracanut tree is the sticky-messiest. This Temple of Sap attraction is a monument to the rare and beautiful maracanut tree, the world's greatest stickerizer." Looks like we've tracked our quarry to its lair, girls! Although, if their biggest attraction was a sap-themed ride, I understand why this place closed down. Girls, get your gear. We're climbin' up.
Holly: Probably not a good idea. (Punches the wall of the ride) The whole thing's structurally unsound.
(The ride begins to fall apart; a big piece detaches completely)
Adyson: Look out!
(The piece of the ride is headed straight for Holly. She runs to safety)
(Holly screams)
(The girls all run over to Isabella)
Adyson: The whole place will fall!
Gretchen: And there's no way to get that tree!
(Song: "The Fireside Girls")
Isabella: Calm down, girls. Have you forgotten who we are? We're Fireside Girls Troop 46321, and we never give up!
All: ♪ We're Fireside Girls, one and all ♪
♪ And together we belong ♪
♪ We wear our patches upon our sashes ♪
♪ And stand cute, small, and strong ♪
♪ This is the Fireside Girls song... ♪
♪ And it's not too terribly long! ♪
Isabella: So, let's procure the sap for Phineas!
Fireside Girls: Yay, Phineas!
Isabella: Oh, and Ferb too!
Fireside Girls: And Ferb too!
Ginger: And Baljeet!
(She is wearing the "I Just Saw A Cute Boy" patch again. Katie rips it off of her sash.)
Isabella: Well, the old hippie didn't mention how to get to the top of that, all he gave us was this Key of Wisdom.
(Isabella presses the peace sign on the key chain. The unlocking noise of a car is heard in the distance. Then the camera zooms in on an old 60s minibus precariously balanced at the peak of the roller coaster.)
Adyson: Groovy!
Katie: Jinkies!
Milly: Far out!
Gretchen: Dy-no-mite!

(Pinky is seen flying through downtown Danville via jet-pack. He flies into Poofenplotz's Me-Mobile through its temple.)
Poofenplotz: Pinky the Chihuahua! Well, Momma knows haw to deal with bad little doggies!
(A newspaper springs up out of the floor and begins smacking Pinky over the head.)
Poofenplotz: Bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad do...
(The newspaper flies across the room, landing in her mouth. Pinky shoots a grappling hook out the hole he created into the side of a nearby building. The Me-Mobile struggles to free itself.)

(Isabella peers into the van)
Isabella: Well, there's no engine, but it looks like gravity will do the trick.
(They all look at the tree, about a hundred feet away)
Isabella: All right, girls. Are we ready to get that "Reckless Disregard for Life and Limb" patch?
Fireside Girls: Aye-aye, Captain!
(The girls climb into the van and buckle their seat-belts)
Isabella: All right, ladies! Lean!
Fireside Girls: Lean!
(They all scream as the van rolls down the roller coaster track. It propels them back up into the air like a ski jump once the track ends.)
Gretchen: So, how exactly is this gonna work?
(Isabella blanks, then becomes visibly worried.)
Isabella: Girls, sashes! Now!
(The Fireside Girls tie their sashes together to form a rope, which Isabella fastens to her waist. She climbs onto the roof.)
Isabella: Gretchen, you have the controls.
Gretchen: What good will that do?!
Isabella: Just trust me!
(Isabella does a swan dive off the roof of the van. Grabbing the tree from the top of the ride, she somersaults up into the back of the van as Milly and Katie open the door for her. She holds the tree up in triumph.)
Isabella: Oh, my goodness, what a cute little tree!
Milly and Katie: Aww.
Gretchen: Isabella? What now? We're gonna CRAAAASH!!!
Isabella: Oh, no, we're not. Everybody... lean! (They all lean on the port side of the van, causing it to spiral down to the ground. As it lowers, it snaps the wire on Pinky's grappling hook. The van lands successfully on the ground. The Fireside Girls cheer.)
(The Me-Mobile somersaults all the way to the old abandoned Old Abandoned Amusement Park. Professor Poofenplotz lands right in the clown locker room.)
(While driving through Danville...)
Isabella: Okay, girls. It's time to tap that sap!
Katie: I'm on it!
Holly: Hold it still, Katie. (She captures the sap in a test tube) We got it, Isabella!
(The van breaks through the wall surrounding the park. It drives right over to where Phineas and Ferb are standing. Isabella somersaults out the back, stands up, and gracefully hands Phineas the vial of sap.)
Isabella: Hey, Phineas. We got that sap you guys needed.
Phineas: Excellent, Isabella! That's the last ingredient we need. (Isabella looks delighted) Now all we have to do is... (changes into a centaur) run away together.
(Isabella's vision from earlier returns, until Gretchen shakes her.)
Gretchen: Isabella? (Record scratch) Isabell-a? Phineas said, "Thanks."
Isabella: "Thanks." He really does appreciate me.
Gretchen: (Pushing the infatuated Isabella off-screen) Yes. Yes, he does.

(In the clown locker room, Professor Poofenplotz raises her head. The first thing she sees are hundreds of bottles of hair spray.)
♪ Stiff Beauty! ♪
Poofenplotz: Yes! At last, my own lifetime supply of Stiff BEAUTY!!!!!
(She sings the last word so loudly that the Temple of Sap ride falls over and crushes the clown locker room. The aerosol cans explode, coating her in hair spray. It is so thick that she cannot move.)
Poofenplotz: (through gritted teeth) I may be stiff, but at least I'm beautiful.
(Part of her hair kinks and stand straight up.)
Poofenplotz: Curse you, Pinky the Chihuahua...!

End credits
(Song: "The Fireside Girls")
Isabella: Have you forgotten who we are? We're Fireside Girls Troop 46321, and we never give up!
All: ♪ We're Fireside Girls, one and all ♪
♪ And together we belong ♪
♪ We wear our patches upon our sashes ♪
♪ And stand cute, small, and strong ♪
♪ This is the Fireside Girls song... ♪
♪ And it's not too terribly long! ♪



(Scene opens up in the backyard at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Isabella: Okay, the camera's all ready!
Phineas: We're almost finished with our exact replica of the Temple of Angkor Wat, constructed entirely out of playing cards. Hey, where's Candace? I bet she'd love to see this.
(Scene shifts to Candace's room)
Candace: "Does He Think You're Pretty Enough? Ten Ways You Could Be.. Better." Wow. Ten ways? Thank you Quazmo Magazine. (cell phone rings) Jeremy!
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. Umm, so listen. I'm really sorry, but something's come up and I won't be able to make it to our date tonight. I hope you understand. Hello? ...Candace, are you there? ...Hello?...Helloo? Well, I guess we got cut off.
Candace: He just broke our date and hung up on me. Oh, it's probably not as bad as I think. Let's see what Quazmo has to say about it. (Starts blubbering)
Phineas: Last card. You do the honors, Ferb.
(Here's where Candace goes berserk.)
Candace: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH!!!!!!
(Birds fly, dogs bark, seals jump into water, monkeys make noise. Tarzan look alike yells. Monkeys stare at him)
Tarzan look alike: What?
(Cards fall down)
Phineas: Umm, hey, Candace. Everything okay?
Candace: Beat it, dweebs! I'm having a crisis!
Phineas: Sounds like Candace is in a serious funk. I wonder what we can do to snap her out of it?
Isabella: Ooh, I know! It's all right here in Tween Bleep magazine. "Three Sure-Fire Ways to Lift Your Friend Out of a Serious Funk. Number one: Give her a complete make-over. A completely different look will often do the trick."
Phineas: A completely different look? Come on, Ferb. We need somebody who's good with make-up and fancy hair-dos.
Isabella: Umm, okay. I'll just stay here with my "Expert Makeover" patches and... Hey, where's Perry?

(Perry robot walks over to a dog house, opens a false door, and walks into his lair. Two large animals with fedoras stand behind him.)
Major Monogram: Agent P, uuh, well, due to your...reprehensible behavior over the past few days, (screen changes to Perry robot kicking over a trash can) which I can barely believe is even possible (changes to fake Perry stealing cash out of a truck) from an agent of your caliber, (changes to fake him throwing money out the window of a car, then to him eating cereal at his host family's table but that Doofenshmirtz's home and Doofenshmirtz's table)  who has learned nothing but the best in his field I, uhh, uh, actually, I don't know what's particularly bad about this clip here, but, we have no choice but...
Carl: Why? Why'd you do it?
Major Monogram: Not yet, Carl. Wait till I'm done here. (to Perry) You are officially.. discharged. (to Carl) Okay, now, Carl.
Carl: Why? Why'd you do it?
Major Monogram: Cuff him, boys.
(Perry pulls hands back, presses a button, and then flies to the back of his lair.)
Major Monogram: Red alert! Red alert! Renegade agent on the run!
(Agents chase Perry, a duck carries a chair with him.)

(Candace presses button on her phone.)
Stacy: Hello?
Candace: Stacy, Jeremy has, like, totally lost interest in me!
Stacy: What makes you think so?
Candace: Quazmo magazine!
Stacy: I'll be right there.
(Knocking on door)
Candace: Well, that was almost impossibly fast.
(Clown arrives, walks into Candace's room)
Candace: Woah, woah, wait! You're not Stacy! Hey, hey, hey! What is going on? Huh? (Clown pulls out a pie) Uh, wait a minute. Now, don't try anything funny! (Pie splashes in her face)
Stacy: So, are you ready for some cheering up?
Candace: (looks in mirror) AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH! (Birds fly, dogs bark, seals jump in water, monkeys beat up Tarzan look-alike.)
(Horn sound)
Phineas: No biggie, Shlocko, you gave it your best shot.
(Horn)
Phineas: In hindsight, a clown may not have been the best choice to do a makeover.
Isabella: Ya think?
Phineas: So, what else does the magazine say?
Isabella: "Step number two: Make her laugh. Laughter is the best medicine."
Phineas: Sure! Make her laugh. Candace has a great sense of humor. Remember that time she got her face caught in the sink?
Stacy: Okay, how 'bout now we get you some ice cream?
Candace: I don't know, Stacy.
Phineas: Good afternoon, ladies.
Stacy: Or we can do this.
Phineas: We have a table reserved for you close to the stage, Miss Flynn.
Stacy: Oh. This is SO cool.
Phineas: (On microphone) Hey, hey, hey, hey, everybody! We havin' fun yet? First up, our favorite math-formula funny man, Baljeet!
(crowd applauds)
Baljeet: (Holding a plastic dummy that looks just like him) Thank you. Thanking you much. So little Jeet, I hear you went to New Delhi. And did you try the chicken club?
(odd silence)
Little Jeet: Wow, that's really what you're going with? You know, just do the water drinking bit.
Baljeet: Okay. The Pythagorean theorem...
Little Jeet: The square of the hypotenuse of a right triang... (coughs then head falls off, then Baljeet coughs)
Phineas: Let's hear it for the dummy! And that puppet wasn't bad either.
(Rim shot)
Phineas: Next up, my favorite vegetable-based comic, Broccoli Top!
Buford: I'm gonna do some prop comedy for you, and you're gonna like it! Okay, what have we got? (reaches into the box and gets a house) Here's a...here's a house. For, uh...I don't know. A mouse or something. (drops and breaks house; gets a book from his box) Here's a book. Hey, what am I...what am I supposed to do? Read? (throws book) Next! All right, let's see what else we've got! Um, and here's, uh, um... (gets out an oyster shell) An oyster shell, look! My...my mom went to a seafood restaurant...I don't have any...it's just...to me, it's just interesting. I'll put that one back in the box. (puts shell back in box) What else we got? Oh, here we go. Look! (pulls out Baljeet) A nerd to go with the book!
Baljeet: I am in both acts.
Buford: (throws Baljeet off stage and onto Ferb's drum set) Thank you! Buford's still in the building!
(crowd booing)
Candace: This isn't making me feel any better.
Buford: What? You wanna wrestle?
Phineas: Coming up next, Ferb Fletcher!
(crowd applauding)
Ferb: Ahem. So, how about that airline food?
(everybody laughs hysterically, one guy flips his table)
Candace: (not laughing along) This, is making me feel worse.
Stacy: (still laughing along) Ahahaha, what's airline food?
Phineas: (Worried) Doesn't look like it's working.
(Scene shifts back to Isabella)
Phineas: So, what does it say for step number three?
(Isabella looks through Tween Bleep until she comes to step number three)
Isabella: It says... "Introduce her to someone new."
Phineas: That should be easy. There are lots of nice people in Danville she's never met. Ferb, I've got an idea.

(Perry's watching one of his lookalikes carry a garbage bag into Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated. He then climbs to the top of the building to find Dr. Doofenshmirtz with Perry lookalikes.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey fellas! Look who decided to make an appearance. (to Perry) You see, it occurred to me that what I really should be doing is fighting fire with fire. And by fire, I mean Perry the Platypus. And by fire, I ALSO mean Perry the Platypus. It occurred to me while I was on fire. I made a bunch of doppelgangers to discredit and totally destroy you. Behold the Plata-Proliferator-inator!
(Shows his invention, a clone of Perry comes out; Doofenshmirtz points to different platypuses.)
Doofenshmirtz: Meet Terry the Platypus, and say hello to Larry the Platypus, and say aloha to Jerry the Platypus. (shows distorted Perry lookalike) Yeah, he was the first one out of the batch, but you know, he was so cute, I couldn't bear to...(Jerry hits Doofenshmirtz with the pipe he was drooling on) Ow! Ow! No, no Jerry you cannot hit people, you do not... (Jerry hits him again) No, use your words Jerry. (talks to the Perry lookalikes) Anyway, all you guys, go get him!
(Perry grabs a pipe and starts swinging it around. He takes out a couple of the Perry lookalikes, then is wrestled to the ground by six of them. Camera pans to Doofenshmirtz and Jerry sitting with some popcorn, watching.)
Doofenshmirtz: Yes!
(Perry pushes all of the lookalikes off of him)
Doofenshmirtz: Awwwww.

(Candace is seen walking home, while talking to Stacy)
Candace: Look at this, Stacy, he won't even answer his cell phone.
Little Jeet: Excuse me, Miss Flynn? You and a guest are cordially invited to the Mixer Mingler.
Candace: Mixer Mingler? Say, aren't you that dummy from the night club?
(Baljeet and his dummy look at each other)
Little Jeet: She's talking to you.
Candace: It's obviously some lame attempt from my brothers to cheer me up. I'm not going.
(Stacy pushes Candace towards the Mix 'n' Mingler)
Stacy: Come on; it will do you good.
Candace: (as they climb up the machine) Oh, would you look at this? If I wasn't so depressed, my brothers would be so busted!
(Scene shifts to Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: With the Mix 'n' Mingler, you'll meet someone new every two seconds. Now, let's fire this thing up.
(Phineas gets to the top of the machine)
Phineas: Fasten your seatbelts!
Candace: I can't believe I'm doing... (The machine starts spinning) AHHHHH!
(Song: Mix and Mingle Machine)
Chorus: (background chanting) Mix, mingle, mix, mingle
Man 1: ♪ Glad to meet ya ♪
Man 2: ♪ Nice to see ya ♪
Pizza man: ♪ My uncle owns a pizzeria ♪
Candace: ♪ Hey, I smell muffins! ♪
Twins: ♪ We love to bake them. ♪
Gardener: ♪ Got any leaves? I'd love to rake them. ♪
Spanish man: ♪ Here's a maraca, we can shake 'em. ♪
Candace: I like your pants?
Man 3: Here, you can take 'em.
Chorus: ♪ Meet and greet folks off the streets, ♪
♪ so make sure that your underwear's clean. ♪
♪ 'Cause you've only got a second to make a good impression ♪
♪ In a mix and mingle machine. ♪
Man 4: ♪ I raise rats. ♪
Little girl: ♪ My tooth fell out. ♪
English man: ♪ I love to dance when I have the gout. ♪
Archer: ♪ I like to shoot a bow and arrow. ♪
Pharaoh: ♪ I like to dance just like a pharaoh. ♪
Small man: ♪ I'm very small, I need a booster. ♪
Man 5: ♪ I'm being followed by a rooster. ♪
Rooster: Yeah, I'm followin' him.
Chorus: ♪ Meet and greet folks off the streets, ♪
♪ so make sure that your underwear's clean. ♪
♪ 'Cause you've only got a second to make a good impression ♪
♪ In a mix and mingle machine. ♪
Man 6: ♪ I'm really dull, but you'll like Tom. ♪
Man 7: ♪ I drew a banjo on my mom! ♪
Man 8: ♪ You'd never know I sport a rug. ♪
Candace: You forgot your socks.
Man 9: I need a hug.
Fat Woman: ♪ I lost 10 pounds. ♪
Man 10: ♪ I'm into sprockets. ♪
Man 11: ♪ You'll never guess what's in my pocket. ♪
Tom: ♪ I'm Tom. ♪
Keith: ♪ I'm Keith. ♪
Sven: ♪ I'm Sven. ♪
Rex: ♪ I'm Rex. ♪
Creepy man: Esh, eesh eesh eesh.
Candace: Next!
Chorus: ♪ Meet and greet folks off the streets, ♪
♪ so make sure that your underwear's clean. ♪
♪ 'Cause you've only got a second to make a good impression ♪
♪ In a mix and mingle machine. ♪
♪ 'Cause you've only got a second to make a good impression ♪
♪ In a mix and mingle machine. ♪
Mix, mingle, mix, mingle, mix, mingle, mix, mingle.

(Perry is still fighting his lookalikes. He jumps onto the lawn chair Jerry was on and flings him towards the Plata-Proliferator-inator. Jerry hits the reverse button, and all of the lookalikes are sucked in. Perry also jumps on Doofenshmirtz's chair, flinging him towards the machine, which then overloads the machine, causing it to explode.)
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Platypus!

(Pieces of the Plata-Proliferator-inator fall towards the Mix 'n' Mingler machine. Ferb grabs a hard hat and runs down the stairs. The Mix 'n' Mingler goes to full speed and lifts off the ground.)
Phineas: Sorry, folks. Prepare for emergency ejection. ('pulls a cord)
(People are ejected out from the machine, screaming. Phineas's chair ejects via a spring, parachutes comes out of all the chairs, and then the Mix 'n' Mingler flies away.)
Phineas: In hindsight, a simple ice cream cone might have been more effective.
Stacy: See?

(Scene shifts to a close-up of Perry, who's using his parachute. Monogram appears on his wristwatch communicator.)
Major Monogram: (tearing up) Congratulations, Agent P. I knew it couldn't be you causing all that trouble. (sobs) You are officially reinstated.
(Carl blows on a noisemaker)

(Stacy and Candace, now in the park, are heading towards an ice cream cart.)
Stacy: You know, a little ice cream always makes me feel better.
Candace: Maybe you're right. I'll have two scoops of...Jeremy? (Jeremy turns around) Jeremy!
Jeremy: Hey, Candace.
Candace: What are you doing here?
Jeremy: I didn't wanna break our date. I just wanted to earn some extra money, so I could surprise you.
Candace: A surprise, for me? Oh, Jeremy.
(Scene shifts to Candace and Jeremy on their date, riding in a carriage.)
Candace: Oh, Jeremy! This was so worth the wait.
Jeremy: I'm just glad you're not one of those people who freaks out just because someone cancels a date.
Candace: (laughs awkwardly; tosses magazine over her shoulder) Right.



(Scene opens on early in the morning at the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Stanky Dog: (on radio) Good morning, Danville! Excitement's in the air today as we await the announcement of the Paisley Sideburn Brothers' first concert visit to the Tri-State Area! Phone lines are clogged and web sites are crashing as local music fans try to get first crack at the hottest concert tickets of the decade!
(Cut to Candace's room. Pan across to reveal her sleepily typing on the computer.)
Candace: Must...get...tickets...
(Cut to shot of the computer. Candace is typing www on the address bar, but her finger stays on the "w" key. Cut to reveal her face lying on the keyboard.)
Candace: Zzzzzzzzzzzz... (She takes her head out of the keyboard to reveal many keys in her face. They pop out to the music of "Shave and a haircut, two bits". She spits two keys out of her mouth.) Oh, still not on sale! (A crash is heard) What the?!
(Cut to outside the house. Candace opens the window and sticks her head out.)
Candace: Hey, isn't it a bit early to start building another crazy contraption?
(Cut to reveal Phineas and Ferb in the backyard with some pieces of their latest big idea in their hands.)
Phineas: What, this? We're still cleaning up from yesterday. It's funny, the cleanup usually takes care of itself, but we've been working all night on this one. (A recycling truck comes to take the dumpster.) That's the last of it, guys! Thanks! (to Candace) It was our biggest project ever! How could you miss it?
Candace: I was kind of busy. (Her phone rings. She zips inside and picks up.) Stacy, what's up?
Stacy: (on phone) AAAAAAAAAAAAAAH!!!! My ticket is in row R!!!! Close enough to smell them!!!!! What did you get?!!?
Candace: Ticket? How'd you get a ticket?
(Stanky Dog appears on the TV.)
Stanky Dog: That's right, folks! Unless you've had your head stickin' out of a window, you know those tickets just went on sale and sold out in 13 seconds flat!
Candace: Sold out?
Stanky Dog: That's right! Sold out! But you still might be able to catch this special added benefit concert tonight at the Fireside Girls Jamboree!
(Candace zips back to the computer and starts typing.)
Candace: Okay, I still got a chance! What the heck? "FIRESIDE GIRLS ONLY! PLEASE ENTER YOUR PATCH #"? (types frantically) Gotta guess the right numbers. Gotta guess the right numbers. "YOU HAVE EXCEEDED YOUR LOG-IN ATTEMPTS"? No, you've exceeded your log-in attempts!! PHINEAS!!!!!
(The door opens revealing Phineas and Ferb, who is carrying Perry.)
Phineas: Yes, Candace?
Candace: Your little friend, Isabella, she's a Fireside Girl, right?! What's her patch number?!
Phineas: I'm not sure. But I can ask her when she gets back from her meeting at the Fireside Girl lodge.
Candace: Lodge, huh? C'mon, you're takin' me down there. Now!
(She grabs Phineas and exits at breakneck speed. Ferb looks down to realize something.)
Ferb: Hey, where's Perry?
(Cut to reveal Agent P flipping a floorboard and going down. He ends up in the basement instead. He walks up the stairs and searches for the floorboard that works. He flips it and drops into his lair.)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P. We're not sure what Doofenshmirtz is up to, but we're sending you to his lab. (Puts on a pair of safety goggles) And we're using this new transporter device we've been working on. It's not approved for testing on humans yet, so you get to try it out first. (Perry gets a worried look on his face.) Good luck, Agent P. Carl, fire it up!
(The device rises from the floor near Perry's seat and zaps him away.)
(Song: Fireside Girls Anthem (instrumental))
(Wipe to the Fireside Girls Lodge.)
Isabella: (offscreen) Yes, it's true that the Paisley Sideburn Brothers tickets (cut to inside the lodge) can only be ordered by an active-duty Fireside Girl. But if you just want to—
Candace: Tell you what, I'm joining up! (slams her hand on the podium) Set me up, sister!
Isabella: Okay. I hereby nominate Candace Flynn into membership in the Loyal Sisterhood of Fireside Girls.
Katie and Ginger: I second! Jinx! (they giggle)
(In the background, Perry gets zapped into the lodge and then zapped out.)
Isabella: Alright, girls, come to order. (to Candace) Now, just fill out this application, read the training manual, sign the insurance waivers, and you can be sworn in at our meeting next week.
Candace: Next week?! But that's too late!
Isabella: I'm sorry, but the traditional procedure comes straight from the Fireside Rules of Order (shows her what looks like a portrait of an old lady in a rocking chair) as established by our founder, Eliza M. Feyersied.
Candace: Well, that's a stupid rule.
Eliza M. Feyersied: (from the "portrait") You watch your mouth, little lady!
Candace: Who puts a picture frame on a window?
Phineas: Is there anything Ferb and I can do to help? Candace really wants to see that concert.
Isabella: Candace, if-if you don't really want to be a Fireside Girl, then—
Candace: No no no, I do, I do! I've gotta get to that concert!
Isabella: Candace, you're not listening to me. You don't—
Candace: Pfft! Forget it! I thought Fireside Girls were supposed to help people.
Eliza M. Feyersied: There is another way!
(The girls gasp)
Isabella: You don't mean—
Eliza M. Feyersied: Yes! Isabella, please read Article 9, Section Charlie, Footnote 6.
Isabella: "A troop leader may award full Fireside Girl status to any girl who has earned 50 patches." But, Mrs. Feyersied, 50 patches in one day?! Is that even possible?!
Eliza M. Feyersied: Well, it depends on how badly she wants it.
Candace: Bring it on!
Isabella: Alright! All you need is a cadet uniform and we can get started.
Candace: Okay. Where can I buy one?
(The Fireside Girls giggle. Cut to Candace at a sewing machine making a uniform.)
Candace: Ouch! (she puts her finger in her mouth)
(Wipe to later that day. Perry gets zapped somewhere in Danville. He looks at his wrist communicator.)
Major Monogram: (on watch) Uh, Agent P, we've teleported you three feet too far to the right.
(Cut to wide shot of D.E.I. to reveal Perry in midair too far from the building. He falls and launches his grappling hook on the balcony.)
♪ Perry ♪
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah— ♪
(Perry steps on a button. He dodges the falling trap.)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus?! Do you even realize how much trouble it is to set a trap?! And for what?! You just jump out of the way!
(Perry's watch beeps.)
Major Monogram: (on watch) Ah, here we go. We've recalibrated the teleporter.
(Perry gets zapped right into the trap.)
Doofenshmirtz: (scratching his head) I don't know what just happened, but I like it. Now, with you safely inside the cage, (pushes a button on a remote) I can unveil my new device of doom. (the inator rises from the floor) Behold, the Metal-Destructinator!
(Wipe back to the lodge.)
Candace: Fifty patches in one day?! (cut to inside to reveal Candace now in her uniform) Where do I start?
(Cut to reveal Ferb at an easel with a compass and pencil.)
Phineas: By combining the shortest linear distance with the highest population density, we've plotted a course for you that's optimized for the greatest number of patch-acquiring opportunities in the shortest period of time.
(Double wipe to show Candace, Phineas and Ferb outside. Phineas and Ferb are showing their sister a diagram.)
Phineas: Then after you wrestle the crocodiles, you'll corkscrew through the overpass and free fall past the flaming high wire to make your last delivery and receive the 50th patch. Got it?
Candace: Is all that really necessary?
Phineas: We're going to need you to plant one of these Fireside Girl markers at the site of each task so the girls at the lodge can track your progress. Now, is Candace Gertrude Flynn your full legal name?
Candace: Ugh. Yes.
Isabella: Great! You just earned your Honesty Patch! Congratulations!
Candace: Really? That was easy! C'mon, let me do another!
Isabella: Ooh, I think you just earned your Enthusiasm Patch!
Candace: Wow! Two down! (does a happy dance)
Phineas: 48 to go!
Candace: Yippee! This is easy!
Phineas: Okay. (quiz show music plays in the background) 15 senior citizens need help crossing a street that's 50 feet across.
Candace: Ooh, goody, I'm great at word problems.
Phineas: No, there's 15 senior citizens that need help crossing the street. (Cut to reveal Candace on roller skates on a conveyor belt.) Good luck, Candace. Don't forget your helmet. (He pulls the lever and gives her a helmet as she rolls down screaming.)
(Song: Go Candace)
(Candace takes out a stop sign and flails down the street as the senior citizens cross.)
Isabella: (looking through binoculars) Senior-service patch: Check.
Montage: Candace is seen making a totem pole with the heads of a mask, Phineas, Ferb and herself. She marks the totem and receives another patch from Isabella. Cut to show a patch with three ice cream cones and two rotating arrows on it. Candace is now in an ice cream parlor juggling ice cream cones. A check is marked off on the patch. Candace, Phineas, Ferb and Isabella are now climbing a mountain. She marks it. A mountain patch is added to her sash.
♪ Go, Candace! Go, Go, Candace! ♪
♪ Go, Candace! Go, Go, Candace! ♪
♪ Go, Candace! Go, Go, Candace! ♪
♪ Go, Candace! Go, Go, Candace! ♪
(Candace screams and lays down her marker on the road as she gets chased by bulls.)
Phineas: Running with the Bulls Patch: check.
(Candace runs to the other side and lays down her marker as she is chased by Buford and other street toughs.)
Isabella: And Running with the Bullies Patch: check.
(Several patches fall down screen as the scene changes to Ferb, Phineas, Candace and Isabella on a charlift with a rainbow in the background. They drop out of their chair onto a ferris wheel. At the bottom, Candace gets out and runs to a pot of gold. Out of the pot of gold emerges a unicorn-turtle creature not unlike the one shown in the title sequence.)
♪ Go, Candace! Go, Go, Candace! ♪
♪ Go, Candace! Go, Go, Candace! ♪
Phineas: Discovering Something That Doesn't Exist Patch: check
(The unicorn-turtle licks Candace and whinnies.)
♪ Go! ♪
(Several patches fall down screen as the scene changes to Isabella, Ferb, Phineas and Candace in a sewer.)
Phineas: Here you go, Candace. Wrestling an Alligator in a Sewer Patch.
Candace: Alligator, you're goin' down!
(She starts wrestling with the gator as her brothers watch.)
Phineas: C'mon, Candace, you can do it! Pin him already! (The gator continues to put up a tough fight. Phineas points to his watch.) We're running behind! (The fight continues) This is really putting us off schedule.
(Cut to Doof and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: So let me explain my new evil scheme. A while back, my doctor put me on a low-carb diet, but I still can't lose those last ten pounds. (Lifts his shirt up revealing his rather large gut. Puts his shirt back down.) Every time I get close to my goal, there's this knocking at the door.
(Flashback to Doof running on his treadmill when a knock is heard at the door. He turns the treadmill off.)
Doofenshmirtz: Who is it?
(He opens the door to reveal Milly and Katie.)
Milly: Fireside Girls. Would you like to buy some of our cupcakes?
Doofenshmirtz: Cupcakes you say? I-I really shouldn't. I should get back to my exercise. I'm almost down to my goal.
Milly: Oh, we understand. Have a nice—
Doofenshmirtz: (swiping the log out of her hands and giving her money) Alright, you talked me into it!
Milly: Thanks!
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: So with my weakness for high-carb sweets, there's really no other choice but to get rid of the bridge to the Fireside cupcake factory. And my Metal-Destructinator can turn any metal object into broccoli. I know what you're thinking, why broccoli? But, w-well, y'know, it's healthy. It's like the opposite of what I'm trying to get— It's—It's poetic justice. It's—Well, it's not—not justice, exactly... Poetic evil. It's poetically evil. Now, to make some last-minute adjustments... (hums)
(Perry begins to unscrew his trap.)
(Wipe back to the sewer)
Isabella: Wrestling an Alligator in a Sewer Patch...
Phineas: Check.
(Cut to reveal Candace all covered in slime and panting. They pop out of the sewer.)
Candace: So what's next?
Phineas: We're a bit behind. You can finish out the rest while you work on your Delivering Cupcakes Patch.
Candace: Sounds easy enough.
Phineas: Well, you have to deliver all these cupcakes.
(A truck is heard backing up. Candace's beret literally jumps off her head as the truck unloads many cupcake-filled logs into a rollercoaster car.)
Candace: All these?!
Phineas: No problem. We've built you a rollercoaster delivery system.
Candace: Alright, let's do this.
(Cut to show a rollercoaster around town a little tamer than the first one they built. Phineas and Ferb lower their safety bars.)
Phineas: Siga sentados, por favor.
Candace: Are you speaking Spani—?!
(The rollercoaster starts going down the track.)
Candace: Here are your cupcakes! AAAAAAAAH! (some bugs crash into her face, she spits some out)
Phineas: Bug Collecting Patch: check.
Candace: I'm going to hurl!
Phineas: Motion Sickness Patch: Check!
(The rollercoaster jumps over a tour bus.)
Candace: The Paisley Sideburn Brothers! Let's hurry!
(She slingshots some logs.)
♪ Go, Candace! Go, Go, Candace! ♪
♪ Go, Candace! Go, Go, Candace! ♪
(Pan over to D.E.I. Cut to Perry finally loosening the screw.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ready to fire. (Perry flings the screw out of one of the holes of the trap with his tail. It hits the inator and then hits Doof in the eye.) Ow! (He suddenly turns the inator aiming it at the trap. The metal bars turn into broccoli. Perry jumps onto Doof.) Ow! Yeah! Oh! (Perry pushes Doof's face into the inator several times.) Quit it, you annoying little pest! (The inator fires.)
(Cut to the rollerocaster.)
Phineas: Last one!
(The inator zaps the rollercoaster, which gets turned into broccoli.)
Phineas: Woohoo!
(Phineas and Isabella laugh as they fall to the ground and land on the broccoli.)
Phineas: Wow, that was fun.
Candace: Fun?! Are you nuts?! And how did a rollercoaster turn into broccoli?! And why broccoli?! How does that make any sense?!
Phineas: Candace, focus. You've still got five minutes and it's 20 blocks away. So, uh...good luck with that. (gives her the log)
Candace: No, I can do this.
(She runs off while an acoustic guitar version of "Go Candace" plays in the background.)
Phineas: Now that's persistence.
Candace: I see the building and I still got three minutes! (She reads the directory.) Got it, 38th floor! (She runs to the elevator, but it is out of order) Out of order?! Okay, stairs. Step aerobics, don't fail me now!
(She runs up the stairs while the music becomes slower. Whip pan up to Doof and Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: Come back here! (Perry grabs a piece of the inator and bends it.) Oh, what are you doing down there?! (Perry activates it and salutes and gets teleported away. The inator turns into broccoli.) Uh-oh. Aaaaah!! (Groans and spits some broccoli out) Curse you, Perry the— (knock at the door) Coming.
(Doof opens the door to reveal an exhausted Candace.)
Candace: Fireside Girl. Here's your order of cupcakes.
Doofenshmirtz: Aren't you a little old to be a Fireside Girl?
Candace: Yes. Yes, I am.
(Cut to the lodge.)
Isabella: (offscreen) Candace, we are all very impressed. (cut to inside) You earned more patches in one day than anyone in the history of the Fireside Girls: 49 patches, which pretty much blows away the previous record of 6 patches held by our own Adyson Sweetwater.
Adyson: Aw, nuts!
Candace: No, I know I did all 50 and I made sure to plant the markers and everything. (holds up a marker) Huh? Looks like I forgot one. I'll just run back before it's five o'clock.
(bell rings)
Isabella: I'm sorry, Candace. Y'know, you may not have lit up the entire board, but you did demonstrate remarkable persistence.
Candace: You mean I get a persistence patch? And that makes 50, right? (short beat) There's no Persistence Patch, is there?
Isabella: Nope. 'Fraid not.
Eliza M. Feyersied: Hold on, Isabella. Little Miss Sassy Mouth here gets a special patch for breakin' the all-time record. (salutes) Congratulations, Fireside Girl! And here's your ticket for the Paisley Sideburn Brothers concert.
Candace: Let's go!
(Cut to the concert. Phineas and Ferb are whistling and cheering with Candace and the Fireside Girls.)
Phineas: Woo! Yeah!
Candace: Phineas and Ferb? How did you guys get in?
Phineas: Isabella invited us. She's allowed to bring guests, you know.
Isabella: That's what I kept trying to tell you, Candace, but you were so insistent on becoming a Fireside Girl. Maybe you can start working on your Good Listener Patch next.
(Candace simply stares in disbelief.)

End Credits
(Candace starts wrestling with the gator as her brothers watch.)
Phineas: C'mon, Candace, you can do it! Pin him already! (The gator continues to put up a tough fight. Phineas points to his watch.) We're running behind! (The fight continues) This is really putting us off schedule. (chomp) Ooh! That's gonna leave a mark.
Ferb: Yes. On the alligator.



(Scene opens up at Mr. Slushy Dawg)
Baljeet: Do you find it as curious as I do that your menu has not changed since you opened in 1929?
Jeremy: I know! It's awesome, right? It's our motto: Slushy Dawgs never get any better.
Baljeet: Well, in that case, I--
Buford: (pushes Baljeet out of the way) Step aside, weiner! One Windmill Dog, hold the bun.
Jeremy: (produces Buford's order) Excellent choice.
(Buford eats the Windmill Corn Dog and begins choking on it. Baljeet notices this and squeezes Buford's stomach until he coughs up the food)
Buford: You saved my life.
Baljeet: It was nothing. (notices Buford bowing to Baljeet's feet) What are you doing?
Buford: I am your humble servant.
Baljeet: What?
Buford: It's the Bully Code. I live my life by it. (produces a card and gives it to Baljeet)
Baljeet: "If a nerd shood save a bully's life, the bully is the nerd's slave for life." "Should" is misspelled.
Buford: Duh! It was written by bullies.
Baljeet: That is very nice, but I do not want a slave.
Buford: Too bad, you got one.
Baljeet: Goodbye. (departs)
Buford: I will empty my mind of all thought, except for Baljeet. (stares at the ceiling for a moment) There, that was easy.
Baljeet: (walking along the streets of Danville) You are following me.
Buford: At a respectable distance, little master.
(Switches to the Flynn-Fletcher house, where Candace is in her room with Stacy)
Candace: (from inside) So, what do you think?
Stacy: What am I looking at?
Candace: Duh, it's a new red shirt!
(Song: "Do Nothing Day")
♪ Beautiful, kind and gentle... ♪
Candace: It's from Jeremy! He sent me a picture. (looks at picture) Aw, look at his cute, little wiener hat. Let's send him a picture of me. Make sure you get my good side. How's the lighting? (Stacy takes the picture) Wait, you took it while I was still talking! 
Stacy: Oh!
Candace: Let me see. (shows an ugly Candace) (gasps) I'd better erase that. (pushes button)
Phone: Picture sent.
Candace: Oh, no! I hit the wrong button!
Stacy Um, go into the menu and--
(Candace accidentally takes another horrible picture and sends it)
Phone: Picture sent.
Candace: No, not again!
Stacy: Here, let me see. (accidentally takes multiple pictures of Candace)
Candace: Stacy, no, stop!
Phone: Pictures sent.
Candace: I'm ruined.
Stacy: Well, he's at work, so maybe he hasn't looked yet.
Candace: We've got to get to Jeremy's phone, come on, we're going to Slushy Dog.
(Switches to Phineas and Ferb in the backyard, discussing what to do for the day)
Phineas: (while Ferb is showing blueprints to him) Peanut butter and jelly robot races, masking tape mummy gymnastics, a jelly bean monetary system for emergenations...I don't know. I'm not feeling any of them.
Candace: Phineas and Ferb are up to something, I'd better tell Mom.
Stacy: Candace, the photos. (She pushes her away.) Eyes on the prize.
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?

(Switches to Perry in the bathroom, where he proceeds to step on a tile, causing them to light up in various different colors)
(Song: "Disco Miniature Golfing Queen" instrumental)
(One of the tiles opens up and Perry jumps down the hole, leading to his lair)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. Sorry to disturb you on Canada Day, but the world's top evil scientists have been photographed leaving Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated. Something big is going on, real big. I need you to infiltrate his headquarters.
Carl: (off-screen) Ahem?
Major Monogram: Sorry. We need you to infiltrate his headquarters. Carl thinks I need to be more "inclusive". Find out what he's up to!
(Perry salutes and turns his chair into a flying vehicle and flies away)
(Switches to D.E.I.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry crashes through Doofenshmirtz's wall, where the latter is seen in a recliner with his right foot in a cast)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus. Have you come to sign my cast? (over a close-up of said cast, with multiple signatures on it) Look, I saved you a spot right there. It says, "Save for Perry." Well, it was a bigger spot before I wrote, "Save for Perry," but there's some room there. Grab that marker.
(Perry proceeds to do so, but the pen turns into a rocket once he grasps it and carries him to the ceiling, where it turns into a net, trapping him)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha-ha! You've heard of the Internet? Well, this is uh... well, it's-it's just a net. But you're caught. (gets up and uses crutches to support him while he walks along) In exactly thirty minutes, the Tutti McFrutti ice cream man will park his truck in front of my building. I know, because I was standing there yesterday when HE RAN OVER MY FOOT! But today, I will reek my horrible vengeance! Behold, the Re-tire-Inator! Because, you know, he ran over my foot with the tire, and I'm going to hit him with a giant tire. Re-tire. It's not like a retire, like stop working. It's not that Retire-Inator. That's-that's actually over there.
(the camera shows said contraption, which is simply a reading lamp, a chair with a sleeping cat that somewhat resembles Garfield, and a table with crossword puzzles on it)
Doofenshmirtz: I've got it ready. It's filled with crossword puzzles, and a big, fat, house cat that will lay on my belly and warm me into my...senior years. Anyhoo, where was I? Oh, yes. Evil laugh. (laughs manically)
(Switches to Baljeet's house, where Baljeet is seen lying in bed)
Buford: Little Master, I've washed all your dust jackets and dusted all your cold knick-knacks.
Baljeet: (over a shot of various foods placed on a bookshelf) Those are not knick-knacks! They are food, and they should be in the refrigerator!
Buford: Ohh, I have disappointed you, Little Master. I will strive to do better.
Baljeet: Do not strive for anything, and I am not your little master.
(Song: "He'll Do Anything But Go Away")
Buford: I'll just fluff up your pillow, then! (Baljeet runs away) Little Master? Little Master?
Baljeet: Stay away from me!
♪ He follows me all over town, ♪
♪ And every time I turn around, ♪
♪ He's standing there at a respectful distance, ♪
♪ He's arranging my underwear drawer, ♪
♪ By dumpin' it out on the floor. ♪
♪ When I'm brushing my teeth, I don't need his assistance, ♪
♪ No, no, no. ♪
♪ Well the story is old, (story is old) ♪
♪ It's a 70's sitcom cliché, ♪
♪ He says he's in my debt, but, I wish he'd forget. ♪
♪ He'll do anything for me, ♪
♪ Anything but go away! ♪
(Switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher house backyard)
Baljeet: (runs up) Phineas! Ferb! I saved Buford's life, and now because of the Bully Code, he is my personal servant! It is driving me crazy! You have got to help me!
Phineas: Okay, okay. We just have to get Buford to save your life, and then you'll be even.
Baljeet: But how?
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
(Cut to Mr. Slushy Dawg.)
Candace: Stacy, I see Jeremy's phone.
Stacy: Where?
Candace: There! His message light is still blinking. That means he hasn't retrieved his pictures yet!
(Cut to inside. Candace and Stacy approach the employees only door.)
Candace: Okay, let's just...
Jeremy: What are you two doing here? I mean, not that I don't like surprise visits from you, but this room is for Slushy Dawg employees only.
Candace: We're Slushy Dawg employees.
Stacy: We are?
Candace: Yeah. We did our training at the downtown branch to surprise you. (beat) Surprise.
Jeremy: Hey, that's rad!
(Screen flips to Stacy in a Slushy Dawg uniform.)
Stacy: Candace, I have absolutely no idea what I'm doing. What are all these buttons for?
Candace: It's hot dogs. How hard can it be? (gives Stacy some fries) Here, fry something. I'm gonna go etgay the onephay. (runs off)
Stacy: Ugh, you know I don't speak Spanish!
(Cut to Candace sneaking up to the Employees Only door. Jeremy walks through.)
Candace: (gasps)
Jeremy: Oh, hey, Candace, I see you've sent me some pictures. I can't wait to check 'em out later when I take my break.
Candace: (fake smiling) Yeah! (frowning) No!
(Pan left to reveal Stacy covered in all sorts of condiments.)
Stacy: I found out what all the buttons are for.
(Cut to Baljeet.)
Baljeet: Oh, yes. This thing is definitely the thing! What is this thing?
(Wide shot to reveal some sort of crazy contraption.)
Phineas: This contraption, my friend, is completely foolproof.
(Song: "Kronk for Hire" (instrumental))
Phineas: Let me explain. You'll "accidentally" step on to that platform, which will launch you up and over that flight of stairs, where you'll be kicked and rocketed through a piece of sheet-rock onto a trampoline. Then conveyer belted up to a rotating system that will drop you onto a spring, bouncing you all the way to that red X, where Buford will be standing, waiting to catch you, saving your life.
Baljeet: Ooh, I am thoroughly terrified, yet tingling with excitement!
(Cut to Candace and Stacy.)
Jeremy: (offscreen) Candace? (walks up to her with headphones) While I check the stockroom, can you take the drive-thru orders?
Candace: Ooh, my favorite!
(Cut to Linda at the drive-thru speakerbox.)
Candace: (on speakerbox) Uh, welcome to Slushy Dawg, can I take your order?
Linda: Candace? You work here?
Candace: Mom?! You eat here?!
Linda: Honey, where are you? (waves) Can you see me? Candace?
Candace: Uh— (walks over to Stacy) This is weird. My mom's here.
Stacy: I think your brothers are, too. Across the street.
Candace: What are they up to?
Linda: (on headphones) Candace?
Candace: Mom? Mom! Drive up to the window! You gotta see what the boys are doing!
Linda: The boys are here, too? Hon, I'm boxed in. I've got a heck of a line in front of me.
Candace: Fill orders, fill orders. (takes and gives a bag) Hi, enjoy your meal. (to the next car) Come again. Enjoy your meal. Bon appétit.
(Cut back to Phineas, Ferb and Baljeet.)
Phineas: Okay, Baljeet. You just stand on that platform and when Buford comes along, we'll guide him to the right spot. Although, it has occurred to us that you're giving up something really cool here.
Baljeet: What?
Phineas: You're spending all this energy trying to stop Buford from being your faithful servant, when the reality is having the biggest, toughest kid in town (Ferb nods) as your personal bodyguard is a sign of supreme coolness.
Baljeet: Really?
Phineas: Yeah, think about it.
Baljeet: Hmm, maybe you are right.
(Cut to D.E.I. Doof is heard gasping as the ice cream truck is heard.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Ooh, hear that, Perry the Platypus?
(Cut to Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: Tootie McFrutti has arrived on time! In a few seconds, he'll be flattened by a speeding tire.
(Doof laughs as Perry frees himself from his trap with the ceiling fan. He activates the inator. Doof screams. The tire misses its target. The inator rolls backward.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh no! Oh no no no! (The inator hits Doof's good foot.) OW!!! NO!!! Oh, my good foot! My good foot! OW! Ow ow! My bad foot! Oh, my good foot again! Oh, no, my bad foot—Oh, this is really a viscous cycle!
(Cut back to Candace.)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace, I'm takin' my break now.
Candace: Uh-huh. (laughs nervously)
(As Jeremy leaves, Candace runs off and literally grabs Stacy.)
Candace: Stacy, we gotta get Mom up here so she can see what the boys are doing. Keep throwing food out the window! (she leaves)
Stacy: Okay.
(Candace runs out the door and approaches Jeremy.)
Candace: Hey, Jeremy, can I borrow your phone? Thanks. Erase photos bust boys erase photos bust boys!
(Cut to Phineas, Ferb and Baljeet. Buford enters.)
Buford: Little Master, Little Master, I finished color-coding all of your overalls. Whadaya want me to do next?
(Phineas smiles at Baljeet.)
Baljeet: Well, first, I would like you to iron all of my books, then perhaps polish my retainer, then you can start my college applications. Massage my toosties. Sew my name onto my underwear, organize my book reports by subject. Ooh, build me—
(The giant tire crashes into the giant hot dog. Buford notices this.)
Buford: Weenie! (Buford pushes Baljeet out of the way.) Alright, we're even.
Baljeet: What? Aw, man.
(Cut to Candace.)
Candace: Ha! All photos erased! Now, onto the boys! (runs up to the gang) Hey, just so you know, Mom's on her waaaaaaaay— (Candace steps on the platform and the contraption activates.)
Phineas: Oops.
(Candace screams as she falls down the staircase and gets booted up.)
(Cut to Stacy at the drive-thru window. Linda pulls up.)
Linda: Stacy, you're here, too?
Stacy: Yeah. Candace wants you to go out front to see what the boys are doing.
Linda: Well, just give me a chili dog and I'll be on my way.
(Cut back to the contraption. The rocket lights up and Candace holds onto it. Cut to Phineas and Ferb.)
Phineas: Sheetrock. (Crash!) Trampoline.
(Cut back to Candace getting conveyer belted and flung onto the spring. The spring launches her skyward and the cell phone takes a picture.)
Candace: No! AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHH!!!
(Buford catches her.)
Buford: I saved your life. Now you're my servant.
Candcae: Ugh, all right, ew! (gets up)
Buford: But the code! You've got no honor!
(Jeremy approaches Candace.)
Jeremy: Candace, wow! You okay?
Candace: Um, yeah. Here's your phone.
Jeremy: (flips it open) There's a picture on it.
Candace: No no!
Jeremy: Hey, that's a great photo of you!
Candace: Huh? Phew!
Jeremy: Now about your job...
Candace: No worries. I quit.
Buford: Hey, you guys wanna hit Slushy Dawg before we go home?
Baljeet: Ew!
Phineas: Nah.
Ferb: Oh, heavens, no. Slushy Dawgs never get any better.
(Cut to Linda approaching the contraption.)
Linda: Candace? Boys? (looks at the contraption) Hmm. (beat) I'll never understand public art.



(In the Flynn Fletcher front yard, a yard sale is being hosted)
Man: Oh cool! Old records! Lindana. Now that's a blast from the past. Wonder where she is now... Probably singing at retirement homes.
(Linda walks over)
Linda: Oh, give me that. (takes the box of records)
Man: Hey, you look familiar.
(By the garage, Phineas and Ferb are examining some reals of film)
Phineas: Hey Dad, what are these?
Lawrence: Oh wow, those are my old black and white detective movies.
Phineas: Do you mind if we watch them?
Lawrence:Not at all boys, the projector's inside.
Phineas: Great, come on Ferb.
(A man grabs a doll from the box Lawrence was carrying)
Lawrence: Oh I see you like that little doll. Well lets see... that'll cost you, uh, fifty cents?
Doofenshmirtz: I'll give you a dollar.
(In the garage, Phineas and Ferb are watching some of the old detective movies)
Detective/Narrator: She rolled into my office like a fog bank. Mysterious. Cold. My instincts told me this dame was nothing but trouble. But trouble's my middle name... Well not really. My middle name is "Trumble"...Sounds a lot like trouble.
Phineas: Wow, this detective stuff is great.
Detective/Narrator: She had something she needed to say. And she spoke with the voice of an angel...
(Suddenly Candace bursts in, in front of the screen)
Candace: Phineas! Where's the box that was in my room?!
Phineas: Well dad was taking boxes out to the yard sale...
Candace: Dad, Dad, wait! (She arrives at the front yard) Dad, is that the box from my room?
Lawrence: Well yes...
Candace: I think I put my little Mary McGuffin doll in there by mistake. Have you seen her?
Lawrence: I just sold her for a whole dollar. Here, you can have it.
(Candace screams)
Lawrence: How about two dollars?

♪ Doofenshmirtz's Ex-Wife's House on a Hill Somewhere! ♪
(Doofenshmirtz rings the doorbell)
Vanessa: Dad? What are you doing here? This isn't your weekend.
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, yes I know, but I have a surprise for you and I just couldn't wait!
Vanessa: (excited) A surprise? Really?
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, it's something you've always wanted. Something you've asked for time and time again. In my hand, I hold the key to...
Vanessa: ... My new car!
Doofenshmirtz: (holds up Mary McGuffin doll) No, your happiness! Remember when you said if I got you a little Mary McGufffin doll, I'd be the world's greatest dad?
Vanessa: Yeah, when I was like, seven.
Doofenshmirtz: At long last I have found one! I have been scouring the Internet and... and Garage sales trying to find the discontinued doll.
Vanessa: Wow, I can't believe you remembered I wanted this.
Doofenshmirtz: Remembered?! I never stop looking!
Vanessa: Really?
Doofenshmirtz: You know, I may be an evil scientist, but it doesn't take a degree purchased from the Internet with your ex-wife's money, to know how special and important you are to me.
Vanessa: That's so sweet.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, I'd better run. I bought a used -inator today at the garage sale, and it's missing one small part.
Vanessa: Really? what does it do?
Doofenshmirtz: I don't know yet, it's missing a part. But whatever it is I'm sure it will be pure evil!
Vanessa: (Talking to the doll) Well, at least you're not evil.

(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher home)
Phineas: (Talking like the detective from the film, with his and Ferb's bedroom painted black and white) It was a dull, hot day in Danville, and she swept into the room like a cool, tropical depression. I could tell by the way she walk, she had something on her mind, either that, or she was chaffing from the heat.
Candace: What's going on here?
Phineas: Her voice flowed soft and smooth, like butter on toast.
Candace: And why are you talking like that?
Phineas: She was observant, maybe too observant.
Candace: Why is everything black and white in here?
Phineas: (talking normally) We painted everything like an old detective movie.
Candace: What about you guys?
Phineas: Detective makeup.
Candace: Detectives? Perfect! I know what you're going to do today! Track down my little Mary McGuffin.
Phineas: Piece of cake. (Ferb hands him a piece of cake) Ooh, chocolate. Thanks Ferb. We'll have you're little Mary McGuffin back faster than you can say, "Hey, where's Perry?"

(Scene shifts to Perry's lair)
Carl: Sir, Agent P is here.
Major Monogram: I can see that Carl, now get back in that corner until I tell you, you can get up. Fifteen minutes left on the timer.
Carl: Okay Sir.
Major Monogram: Agent P. we, we just found out that Doofenshmirtz is scouring the Tri-State Area for some kind of on-off device.
Carl: A switch, Sir.
Major Monogram: Right, we think it may be a switch, but we don't know what it's for so, we need your help. Good luck Agent P.

Phineas: (Narrating while Ferb plays his sax) The sun beat down on the city like a hammer, a relentless hot beating hammer hammering down like a big metaphor that was... hot, for some reason.
Candace: Stop with the narration and start finding my doll!
Phineas: We decided to investigate at the scene of the crime. We talked to a Lawrence Fletcher, a tall gaunt looking average Joe who... (Ferb stops playing the sax, and Phineas switches back to his normal voice) Sorry.
Lawrence: Is that my old black and white saxophone?
Phineas: We thought the investigation could use a little ambiance.
Lawrence: Oh, delightful. How can I help?
Phineas: We need you to tell us everything you can about the man who bought the doll.
Lawrence: Well, let me see... He had some kind of a German accent, and ooh, he was wearing a lab coat.
Phineas: A lab coat, huh? Ferb? (Ferb begins to play the saxophone again) For an average Joe, he gave us an above average clue. Our next step was clear.
Lawrence: Who is he talking to?
Candace: Oh, don't get me started.

(Song: Not So Bad A Dad)
Vanessa: ♪ You were a sub-standard dad ♪
♪ But the only one I had ♪
♪ I grew up hearing your evil scheming down the hall. ♪
♪ But when I look at this thing ♪
♪ It makes me wanna sing ♪
♪ Maybe you're not so bad a dad after all. ♪
♪ At my first ever swim meet, ♪
♪ You stepped on the other team's feet. ♪
♪ At my recital you clapped louder than you should. ♪
♪ But when you taught me how to drive ♪
♪ We actually made it home alive ♪
♪ I guess it's possible not every part of you isn't good. ♪
♪ I know at times I would cringe ♪
♪ Like when you wore all that fringe ♪
♪ And when you went out of your way to catch that foul ball ♪
♪ But this piece of plastic in my hand ♪
♪ Makes me finally understand ♪
♪ Maybe you're not so bad a dad ♪
♪ Not so bad a dad after all.. ♪
Charlene: Vanessa, Charitable Charities is here. Do you have your box ready?
Vanessa: Yeah Mom, it's next to my bookshelf.
(In Vanessa's room)
Charlene: Oops, looks like something fell out. (She picks up the Mary McGuffin doll, and puts it in the box)
Charlene: (At the Charitable Charities man) Here you go.
Man from Charitable Charities: Aww, thanks Char. I'll pick you up at eight.
Charlene: See you then Sam.

Phineas: (Narrating) We figured the best place to find a man in a lab coat was at the Lab Coat Emporium. We interviewed several suspects.
Suspect 1: Well, yes I was at a garage sale, but as you can see, I don't have an accent.
Suspect 2: Yeah, I have an accent, but I have not been to a garage sale.
Suspect 3: Whoa! Hey kid, slow down. I can't answer all these questions.
Candace: Well that wasn't very productive. Was it?
Phineas: We decided to have a talk with the owner.
(Shines a bright light onto the owner of the Lab Coat Emporium) What do you know about a man in a lab coat with a German accent, frequents garage sales?
Owner: Oh, that guy, I don't know anything about that guy.
Phineas: Alright Ferb, lean on him.
(Ferb leans on the owner of the store)
Owner: Alright, alright I'll talk. Okay, there's this guy. He comes in every week for a lab coat. He has me put everything on his ex-wife's tab. See, her address is on the bill.
Phineas: I do see. Well thanks a lot for your help. You can wrap it up Ferb.
(Ferb begins to fold up their interrogation room setup)
Owner: Can I take this makeup off now?

(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
Doofenshmirtz: I can't believe how lucky I was at that garage sale, someones personal collection of on-off switches. Score! (Begins trying the switches on his -inator) Hmm, looks like this one doesn't fit, more where that came from. Nope. How 'bout this? Come on, Papa needs a band new -inator. (Gets hit in the head with a rubber duck) Oh! what the--? Perry the Platypus, are you making your own keys now? Oh, you like all the stuff I got at the garage sale? Want to know what else I got? This lobster trap!
(A lobster trap falls on Perry, trapping him.)
Doofenshmirtz: (Laughs evilly) Yeah, anyway, sorry I can't tell you my evil scheme, because I... I don't know what this does yet. I'm still looking for an on-off switch. Life was much simpler when I worked as a lawn gnome.

(Scene shifts to Charlene's house)
Vanessa: Mom!
Charlene: Yes, dear?
Vanessa: Have you seen my little Mary McGuffin Doll?
Charlene: Could it be the one I just put in the box for Charitable Charities?
Vanessa: Oh no, Dad gave that to me.
Charlene: Well, I'm sorry I didn't know. But I think the truck is still out there.
Vanessa: (She runs out the door, passing Phineas, Ferb and Candace as they come up.) Wait! Sam! I want to retain a portion of my mother's charitable donation!
Phineas: (Talking to Charlene) Hello ma'am. We'd like to ask you a few questions.
Charlene: Are you with the census?
Phineas: No, ma'am, today we're detectives.
Charlene: Aren't you a little young to be detectives?
Phineas: If it's all the same to you ma'am, we'll ask the questions.
Charlene: Oh, okay come on in. Would you kids like some apple juice?
Phineas: That would be nice ma'am.
(In the same interrogation set up as before)
Phineas: Alright lady, what do you know about the little Mary McGuffin doll? (takes a sip of apple juice)
Charlene: You too? Well like I told my daughter, I gave it to charity.
Phineas: And?
Charlene: Well... nothing, that's it. The Charitable Charities truck just left, that have a few locations 'round town, so I'm not sure which one they're going to.
Phineas: Alright Ferb, pack it up. We've got some charities to visit. But I think we're going to need to update our approach.
Phineas: (Narrating during a montage asking Charitable Charities if that had the doll) We checked out act of the charitable charities in Danville, using every cop persona we could think of. In every case, it seemed we had the wrong location.
Charitable Charities Manager 3: Aren't you kids a little young to know about all these old detective shows?
Phineas: Yes, yes we... (Pauses and puts on sunglasses in a Horatio Caine like fashion) ...are.
♪ YEAH! ♪

(In rock and roll/CSI: Miami style) ♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, man, how many different kinds of on-off switches can there be? I mean, look at this. An octagon? And one shaped like the Statue of Liberty? That doesn't even make sense. Oh, and here's one. The exact same size and shape that I'm looking for except it's upside-down. I mean, the words are actually printed upside-down. What kind of a dummkopf would invent an upside-down... switch...that... (Pauses, sighs, and flips the switch so that it's right-side-up.) I did it! Time to find out what this bad boy can do! (He flips the switch) On.
(Perry's lobster trap opens and he climbs out of it)
Doofenshmirtz: (Not realizing what is happening) Off. On. Off. On. Off. On. Augh, I'm herring a clanking voice, so I know it's doing something. (Realizes that the -inator opens the lobster trap) Oh, the -inator and the cage they're connected. It's just, opens and closes the... Well I guess that's why I got the cage for free.
(Perry grabs onto Doofenshmirtz, and throws him into a pile of junk)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey! I was talking! (Doofenshmirtz begins to sword battle with Perry, with a moose antler, and a marlin) Take that, and that! Hey lets see if you can take a couple hits, from the 70's! (Begins to throw record at Perry, who avoids them, and hides behind a painting) Ahh, that takes me back... Hey where'd you go? Yow! Is that, that shark's head? Are you trying to make me cry? Wait hold on one second here, just a second. It occurs to me that all this does is open and close a lobster cage, so it's not evil, much less illegal. Besides, I've run out of clever fighting puns so... Curse you Perry the Platypus.

(At a Charitable Charities)
Candace: There she is! My little Mary McGuffin Doll!
(Reaches for it buts someone else also does)
(Speaking to Vanessa, who was also grabbing for the doll) I'm sorry, but this is my doll.
Vanessa: No, it ended up here by mistake, and it's actually my doll.
Candace: You might think it's your doll, but it's not. I'm going to have to ask you to pleas let go!
Vanessa: You please let go.
Candace: You let go!
Ferb: (to Phineas) This is exactly why they took that doll off the market.
(Candace and Vanessa fall over, from fighting over the doll, and it goes flying, landing in Sally's arms)
Sally: Look. She's perfect, and I just love her.
Candace: Oh, forget it. I guess I'm too old for dolls anyway.
Vanessa: Yeah, maybe I don't really have to have the one object my dad spent years to find in order to show me his affection. (pause) No, actually I do. (at Sally) Give me that, kid!
(Vanessa takes the doll and leaves Sally crying)
Doofenshmirtz: (talking to Vanessa on the phone) So you just took it from the little girl and left her there crying? Wow, that is evil! Honey, I am so proud of you! It felt good didn't it? Yeah, we can build on this.
♪ Not so bad a dad after all ♪

End credits
(Song: Not So Bad A Dad)
♪ You were a sub-standard dad ♪
♪ But the only one I had ♪
♪ I grew up hearing your evil scheming down the hall. ♪
♪ But this piece of plastic in my hand ♪
♪ Makes me finally understand ♪
♪ Maybe you're not so bad a dad ♪
♪ Not so bad a dad after all... ♪



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house, then the garage. Phineas and Ferb have literally turned the room upside-down)
Lawrence: Hello, boys, I thought I heard a noise out here.
Phineas: Oh, hey Dad.
Lawrence: Say, there is something pretty peculiar going on here, now, don't tell me! You turned the entire garage upside-down, now why on earth would you do that?
Phineas: We're searching for Ferb's favorite skateboard.
Lawrence: (yelling to Linda) Dear! Are you aware the boys have turned the garage upside-down, looking for Ferb's skateboard?
Linda: (offscreen) As long as they clean up after!
Lawrence: Oh, right-o. (to Phineas) Ooh, just a minute, does that skateboard have a Union Jack on the bottom?
Phineas: That's the one!
Lawrence: Turn the thing right-side up and come in the house. I believe I solved your mystery.
Phineas: You heard him, Ferb. Let's turn it over.
(the garage turns right-side up)

(At the computer)
Phineas: So, what have you got, Pop?
Lawrence: Take a gander what a certain old geezer posted on his blog.
(a photo of Reg skateboarding appears on the monitor)
Phineas: Hey, it's Grandpa! (chuckles) Ferb, he must have left your skateboard in England the last time we were there. I know! We could create a highly intricate and sophisticated machine, that will transport any object from anywhere on the globe to our backyard!
Lawrence: Well, why don't you just build a new skateboard?
(long pause)
Phineas: Nah, I don't think so.
Ferb: If it's all the same with you, Father, we're going to build the machine.
(Cut to Linda dressed up in Mexican wear in the kitchen, she is shaking dreidel maracas)
Candace: Whoa, Mom. What's with the getup?
Linda: I'm on my way to join Vivian Garcia-Shapiro, at the Mexican-Jewish Cultural Fair today. Would you like to come along?
Candace: Let me think...um, no.
Linda: (leaving) Oh, well, suit yourself, bubelita!
(In the backyard, the transporter is finished)
Phineas: Let's give her a trial run. Start with something small.
Buford: Check it out, dweebs! Betcha can't shoot this apple off my head.
(Ferb takes his picture)
Buford: (at the camera) Hmm, not really what I meant. But, okay.
(Ferb puts the apple photo into the camera which brings it up on the monitor and starts typing the piano-styled keyboard. Instantly, the transporter's satellite-like top fires a ray)
Buford: But I still got my apple here, William Tell!
(The ray hits the apple on Buford's head, making the apple and part of his hair disappear)
Buford: Nice buzz cut. High and tight.
(the apple appears on the transporter's receiver platform, Perry walks by and eats the apple)
Phineas: Hey! It worked. Now, let's try it on something more complex.
Buford: I'm complex! Really, I'm like an onion.
(a fly buzzes by Buford as Ferb takes his picture. He puts the photo in the transporter and types; Buford is transported to the platform, but with bug eyes, wings and a fly's leg)
Buford: Whoa. It's like there's thousands of you guys.
Phineas: Oops! (inserts another picture and presses button) I forgot to install the Fly Filter. Better try that again...
(Buford and the fly get separated)
Phineas: Sorry, Buford. Are you all right?
Buford: I have a weird craving for something stinky.
Phineas: He's all right. (gives Ferb a photo) Okay, Ferb, let's get that skateboard before Grandpa breaks his neck.
(On the screen, Ferb zooms in on the skateboard and Grandpa's feet. The transporter activates and goes around the Earth to London.)
(Cut to London where Reginald is skateboarding. The green takes the skateboard and his feet.)
Reginald: What in blazes— (he tumbles backwards)
(Cut back to the backyard. The skateboard appears in the transporter along with Reginald's feet.)
Phineas: Yes! It worked! (looks at the feet on the skateboard) Oops.
(Cut back to England)
Reginald: I say, that's peculiar. My bloomin' feet have gone missing.
(Winifred approaches him and removes two plugs from her nose.)
Winifred: I can breathe again! (sniffs) I smell lupins!
(Cut back to the backyard)
Phineas: Better send his feet back.
(Cut back to England where Reginald gets his feet back, but they are on backwards.)
Reginald: They're back! Egad, they're facin' me 'iney! I say, ha ha, (walks around) I can get the 'ang of this! Now I can finally see where I've been! Crackin'!
(Cut back to the backyard)
Phineas: Now let's try out that half-pipe. Hey, where's Perry?

(Cut to Perry's lair.)
Major Monogram: Hello, Agent P. Nice entrance today. Simple and understated. I like it. Anyway, we have a situation: We recently discovered that all of the mimes in Danville Park have been trapped in actual invisible boxes. (cut to a scene of a bunch of mimes in Danville Park feeling up their invisible boxes) It took days to discover because, well, everyone just assumed they were really good mimes.
Robot Guy: I'm not even a mime! I'm a robot guy!
(Cut back to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: We're convinced that it has something to do with a new machine Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been working on. We're sending you a photo of his new inator. Oh-ho yeah! It looks evil all right. You better destroy it. Good luck, Agent P!

(Cut to the backyard, Isabella and Baljeet arrive)
Isabella: Hey, guys, what'cha doin'?
Phineas: We're conducting an experiment with our mega-half-pipe and our new photo transporter. (Pan up to reveal Ferb at the top of the half pipe) Okay, Ferb, let 'er rip!
(A bird flies by about to crash into the half pipe as always, but Ferb pulls a lever opening a door to let it fly through. He skates down the half pipe. We hear Candace gasping.)
Candace: (from her bedroom window) No way!!!
(Cut back to Ferb, still skating down and finally going up the other end as Isabella, Baljeet and Buford gasp and look in fear, followed by Candace again. Cut to Phineas who scans a photo of Ferb into the transporter and activates it, sending Ferb safely down to the platform, catching his skateboard. A ta-da fanfare is heard. The others cheer.)
Candace: ¡Oy, carumba! I've got to tell Mom! Now where did she say she was going again?
(Cut to the Mexican-Jewish Cultural Festival)
(Song: Mexican-Jewish Cultural Festival)
♪ It's the Mexican-Jewish cultural festival! ♪
♪ Mexican-Jewish cultural festival! ♪
♪ Oy-le! ♪
♪ There is kreplach on tostadas, ♪
♪ A pupik in our piñata, ♪
♪ We kibitz when we lambada. ♪
♪ How are things in Ensenada? ♪
♪ We put bottles on cabezas. ♪
♪ We do mitzvahs up on mesas. ♪
♪ And we're coming to your places, ♪
♪ With big smiles upon our faces. ♪




♪ It's the Mexican-Jewish cultural festival! ♪
♪ Mexican-Jewish cultural festival! ♪

  

♪ There is kreplach on tostadas, ♪
♪ A pupik in our piñata, ♪
♪ We kibitz when we lambada. ♪
♪ How are things in Ensenada? ♪
♪ We put bottles on cabezas. ♪
♪ We do mitzvahs up on mesas. ♪
♪ And we're coming to your places, ♪
♪ With big smiles upon our faces. ♪


Linda: ¡Oy-lé! Candace, I'm so glad you could make it!
Candace: Mom, you've gotta come home right away! Phineas and Ferb...have...th-they built a...d...a thing that...that...Oh, what's the use? I'll only drive you home to find that the boys' contraption I wanna show you has inexplicably disappeared and, once again, you'll think I've lost my marbles.
Linda: That does seem to be a pattern, doesn't it? Come on! Enjoy the festival! Here, have a dreidel-raca!
(Cut back to the backyard. Buford is holding a photograph and talking to Phineas)
Buford: You think your machine can find my long lost teddy bear? (flips the photo) I got his picture right here.
Phineas: Hmmm, let's give it a shot.
(He scans the photo.)
(Cut to an arid desert. A truck is driving on the road. Cut to the front of the truck to reveal the teddy bear is tied to the grill of the truck. It gets zapped by the ray.)
(Cut back to the backyard where the bear arrives on the platform)
Buford: (happily) Teddy Boo Boo! (angrily) Where have you been, you bad bear?! I bet you've been on the road again, haven't you?! Well, you're grounded, mister! (happily) Oh, I love you!
(Cut back to the festival. Candace is talking to Vivian who is running a food stand.)
Candace: You know, Mrs. Garcia-Shapiro, every time I try to show my mom something, it disappears and she thinks I'm crazy. What do you think I should do?
Vivian: Eat! You're too thin! Have a matzah ball-rito!
Candace: Er...thanks.

(Cut to D.E.I.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
(Pan up to show a helicopter, which Perry descends from. He ropes down to a window, which he taps with his foot. He then goes backwards.)
Doofenshmirtz: Who's tap tap tapping? Is that that pesky raven again? (Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz backwards, to which he responds with sarcasm) Oh, big surprise! Perry the Platypus! And by "surprise", I mean completely...Uhhh...uhhh, I got nothin'. (He activates a remote, we hear something drop and Perry looks around) I was really expecting the raven. I'll be honest. And by the way, you're trapped in an invisible box! Yes, I know, I trapped you before in an invisible cage, but this is different! It's a box! It's all part of my evil plan to rid the world of annoying mimes! You see, recently, I was...
(Flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) ...strolling through the park, when suddenly, I had the strangest feeling that people were looking at me. And laughing! Probably because people were actually looking at me and laughing! I couldn't figure out what was going on until I turned around and saw a mime! He was mocking me: my walk, my incessant hand-wringing, my mantis-like posture! (The mime gets a giant mantis from the left side of the screen and chomps it) Then that I decided to get even.
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: Behold, the mime-inator! With this baby, I'm going to trap every mime in the Tri-State Area in their very own invisible box! I know, huh? Fun with irony!

(Cut back to the backyard. Phineas, Isabaella, Buford and Baljeet are on a catapult)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb. We're ready! How 'bout you? (Ferb nods)
(The catapult goes off causing the four to go airborne)
Phineas: I'm tasting the clouds!
Isabella: I'm feelin' the ozone!
Buford: I am dryin' my pits!
(Ferb activates the transporter and an image of the four comes onscreen. He presses a key and the ray zaps the quartet sending them safely onto the platform, as they laugh.)
(Cut back to the festival. Candace is getting her picture taken)
Photographer: Say, "¡Queso!"
(The photographer gives her the picture.)
Candace: Wait a minute. (smiles) The photo transporter! All I have to do is put my mom's photo in the machine, then she'll be transported right to the boys! Right?
Photographer: (looks to both sides awkwardly) Jess?
Candace: (gasps) Then the boys' invention can't disappear before Mom sees it because she'll be in it! It's fool-proof! Phineas and Ferb will be busted once and for all! (grabs the camera) Can I borrow this? (zips away)
Photographer: Hey! My mom gave me that!
(Candace zips in front of her mother with the camera)
Candace: Smile! (she snaps the photo, which comes out instantly, she looks at the photo) Aha! (shows it to Linda) AHA!! (looks at the photo) Aha! (shows it to Linda) AHA!! (looks at the photo) Aha! (shows it to Linda) AHA!! (looks at the photo) Aha! (shows it to Linda) AHA!! (looks at the photo) Aha! (shows it to Linda) AHA!! (looks at the photo) Aha! (shows it to Linda) AHA!!
Linda: (overlapping) Aw, it's nice to see you giving up your obsession with the boys and getting into the spirt of things.

(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, you really are quite the mime! It really looks like you are inside an invisible b—(gasps) Oh, that's right! You really are inside an invisible box! Ha ha ha! I'm already tired of that joke, but I can't stop saying it. (activating the inator) You know, it works so well with the mimes that I decided to put everyone in the Tri-State Area in an invisible box! Ha ha ha! (The inator stops moving. Doofenshmirtz clicks the remote several times.) Oh, for crying out loud! (He walks over to a handle bar and starts moving the inator manually.)
(Perry produces an electric glass cutter, which he operates on the invisible box. Cut to the balcony of D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: And now, to pull the switch. (Perry jumps on him) Thanks for the headache! (Perry punches him in the eye) Thanks for the face-ache!

(Cut back to the backyard)
Phineas: Has everyone had a chance to try the machine?
(Cut to Buford with his teddy and Isabella with a rag doll)
Buford: Yeah, I got my teddy bear.
Isabella: I got my missing Mindy doll.
(Cut to Baljeet with an older Indian man.)
Baljeet: And I found my missing Uncle Maulik!
Uncle Maulik: Baljeet, I was just on vacation.
Baljeet: Oh. Were you having a good time?
Uncle Maulik: I was.
Phineas: Perry's not back yet. I know! I'll put a photo of him in the machine and transport him back here. (Phineas scans the photo of Perry.)

(Cut back to the D.E.I. balcony)
Doofenshmirtz: No, Perry the Platypus, don't press the self-destruct button!
(Perry is about to push it when suddenly the ray zaps him)

(Cut to the backyard)
Candace: (offscreen) You're all so busted!
(Perry takes off his fedora and chatters)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry!
(Candace runs into frame panting and laughing carrying the photo of Linda)
Candace: (panting) Ah-ha-ha! Move it! This is it! The ultimate bust!
(Cut back to the festival where Linda is about to break a dreidel piñata blindfolded)
Man: Okay. (He lifts the piñata up) Oopsies! Ha! Come on! You gotta put more effort into it! (The ray zaps Linda) ¡Oy, carumba!
(Cut back to the backyard, where Linda arrives, still blindfolded and swinging the bat)
Linda: More effort? You got it!
(She begins unknowingly chasing the kids)
Candace: Yes! It worked! (chasing her mother) Mom! Mom! Look!
Linda: (overlapping) Where is the piñata?

(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: W-Where did he go? He was standing right there about to foil my evil plans and now I'm...and now I'm totally free to move forward with my heinous project! Woo-hoo!

(Cut back to the backyard where Candace is now being chased by her still-blindfolded mother)
Candace: MOMMM!!!!
Baljeet: There is no candy in me!!!! There is no candy in me!!!
Buford: (overlapping) Look out!!!
Linda: (offscreen) Could somebody please tell me if I am warm or cold?
(Agent P takes the photo of the inator and puts it in the machine, then scans it)
Candace: (offscreen) You're cold!!!
Baljeet: (offscreen) THERE IS NO CANDY IN ME!!!
Buford: (offscreen) Why is this happening?!?!

(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: And now, invisible boxes for everyone! (The ray zaps the inator. Doofenshmirtz looks at the empty space confused) Sure! WWWWWWhy not?

(Cut back to the backyard. The inator arrives on the platform.)
Candace: Mom, look! MOM, LOOK!!! (She jumps on her mother causing the bat to fall out of her grip and flying in the area of the transporter) MOM!!! LOOK!!!
(The bat activates the self-destruct button causing both the inator and the transporter to disappear. Candace has her eyes closed until further notice)
Linda: (lifting her blindfold) Oh my goodness! I walked all the way home? (Candace's eyes open) I guess it's hard to judge distances blindfolded. (stands up) Well, snacks anyone? (walks away)
Candace: Bu-bu-bu-bu-but...bu-bu-bu-bu-but...bu-bu-bu-bu-but... (repeat ad infinitum)
(Song: There is No Candy in Me)
(Ferb beatboxes over Candace's stuttering)
Phineas: (imitating a turntable) Wacka-wacka-wack...
Baljeet: (rapping) ♪ There is no candy in me, ♪
♪ There is no candy in me! ♪
(Phineas brings Perry into frame, who chatters)
♪ I am just a little boy, ♪
♪ There is no candy in me! ♪
♪ Your mother is blindfolded ♪
♪ So she cannot see! ♪
♪ She attacked me with a bat! ♪
♪ There is no candy in me!!! ♪
Buford: Nerd ain't no piñata!



(Scene starts with Flynn-Fletcher house in view.)
Candace: It's totally time for a totally favorite TV show!
(Candace and Stacy are sitting on the sofa; Jeremy arrives.)
Candace: (offering Jeremy a seat) Hey there, Jeremy. Care to have a seat? I have something to show you.
(Cut to close-up on Candace and Jeremy's face)
Candace: (mysterious voice) It's impossibly important...
(TV show starts)
Candace: Ohh, it's starting! (put finger to Jeremy's lips) Shhhh...
(Song: "Let's All Dance Until We're Sick" theme)
Robbie Wyckoff: Oh yeah...Everybody get up, time to shimmy and shake!Stomp and twist 'til your ankles break!Jumpin' all around like a pogo stick!Let's all dance until we're sick!Let's all dance until we're sick!

(Scene on TV cuts to show the host, Nikki Stars, hosting)
Nikki: Hi ya! Nikki Stars here. Get ready Danville, because the most popular dance contest is coming to you!
Candace: See Jeremy, that's my surprise. They're taping Danville and I already entered us!
Stacy: No, great! You guys are totally gonna win!
Jeremy: Sure, Candace! Um.. I'm gonna go get some fresh air, okay?
Candace: Okay!
Candace: (talking to Stacy) He's so excited to get free!
(Candace and Stacy let out a sound that sounds somewhat like screaming)
(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Phineas: So, brother of mine, what ever shall we engage into today? (changes subject of the conversation) Hey Jeremy! What's the hapt of it, guy?
Jeremy: Oh, man. Your sister's into that some big dance show. And, you know, I just don't wanna let her down.
Phineas: So, what's the problem?
Jeremy: Have you seen the fancy dancing on the show? I can fake it in a school auditorium. Just not in a nationally syndicated dance show.
Phineas: Well, maybe Ferb can teach you.
(Song: "Spa Day", instrumental)
(Ferb dances, using random dancing moves)
Jeremy: Wow. That's really-
Phineas: (interrupting) Uhp-uhp! Wait for it...
(Ferb does the splits to end the dance)
Jeremy: There's no way I can't learn that by tonight.
Phineas: Hmmm...maybe you don't have to. (to Ferb) Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
(a short pause)
Phineas: What?
(short pause starts again)
Phineas: Oh. Sorry. (grabs Ferb's hand and pulls him up) Hey! I wonder where Perry is!

(In Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. Seems Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been buying the entire Tri-State Area's supply: potatoes, vegan, and whole boatloads of chopped green onions-sounds like a recipe for evil, literally. So, get cooking Agent P! Monogram out.
(Perry escapes directly using his chair)

Phineas: So, here it is! The Ferbalistic Groovatron 9000!
Jeremy: How is that supposed to help me?
Phineas: You put it under your clothes, and nobody will see this electronic exoskeleton helping you with dance moves!
(Two guitar strums are played as the scene shifts to Jeremy wearing the exoskeleton)
Phineas: Ferb does the fancy dancing move over here, and you do the same fancy dancing move over there!
(Ferb responds to the exoskeleton by dancing, and therefore controlling Jeremy)
Jeremy: Sweet.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc- ♪
(Perry's chair is crushed by Doofenshmirtz's robotic arm)
Computer voice: Intruder alert.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, well, well, look who's here. Perry the Platypus. All shackled up and no place to go! Um, I think we made too much potato salad, Norm. I guess we'll have to give everyone a 2-ton take-home container. And I still think you should have added more green onions.
Norm: Well, next time you'll do all the cooking and I'll stand around coming up with evil plans that ultimately fail!
(Awkward silence, Doofenshmirtz stares at Norm)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow. Cuttin' deep, man. Well, I'm off to my annual evil potluck and press conference. I'll just leave you here to, you know, to meet your doom. This, was on the movie. I didn't catch the ending, and other things to do, but it seems really bulletproof. Well, gotta run and y'can't be at two places at one time, so you'll be able to... (turning to Norm) Norm, let's go.
Norm: Wouldn't it kill you to say please once in a while?
Doofenshmirtz: You're going to be like this all day.
Norm: Yes. Yes, I am.
(Perry escapes from the trap)

Candace: We are so going to win, this time, Jeremy. We are going TO WIN!
(Candace lets out the sound what her and Stacy did at that time, but this time, she is only doing it)
Nikki: Dancers, your dance floor awaits!
(Everyone runs to the stage)
Nikki: Our dancers will boogie until they get axed for the judges. If your light goes out, your time is up. Now, let the dancing begin!
Phineas: Ready?
(Ferb responds to Phineas using the "thumbs up" gesture)

Dr. Bloodpudding: Alright Heinz, where's the press?
Doofenshmirtz: Patience, Dr. Bloodpudding, they'll be here. When have I ever let you guys down?
Rodney: Far too often Doofenshmirtz, far too often.
Doofenshmirtz: Rodney, I don't remember inviting you.
Rodney: I told you! I prefer you use my full name: Aloyse Everheart Elizabeth Otto Wolfgang Hypatia Gunther Galen Gary Cooper von Roddenstein!
Doofenshmirtz: Anyway, today is the day we reveal to the Tri-State Area, the existence of the League Of Villainous Evildoers Maniacally United For Frightening Investments in Naughtiness!
Dr. Bloodpudding: You want us to be called L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N.?
(weird musical sound)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh good grief!! It doesn't matter what we're called. What's important is that we get our evil message out to the people of the Tri-State Area!
Rodney: And how are we going to that with no TV cameras or no press of any kind?
Doofenshmirtz: They'll be here, they'll be here. Clearly, they buffet along and bring us.
Norm: Yummy, yummy potato salad!
Rodney: And we do seem to have a surplus of that. (Grins mockingly) Did you expect everyone to lug home 2-ton take home bags?
Doofenshmirtz: No.
Norm: (suddenly) Yes.
Doofenshmirtz: Shut it, Norm. Whose side are you on, anyway? And the press will be here, Rodney.
Dr. Diminutive: I don't think so, Heinz!
Doofenshmirtz: Dr. Diminutive?
Dr. Diminutive: Here, look. All the present town is covering this.
(in the TV broadcast)
News broadcaster: That's right. Let's Dance 'Til We're Sick is filming here in Danville. And I've got all the live coverage 24/7!
Doofenshmirtz: Well, if the press won't come to us, we'll go to the press. To the dance hall!
(Perry is late, and leaves shortly after he doesn't see any scientists)
Doofenshmirtz: Attention, miserable citizens of Danville!
(the people doesn't respond)
Doofenshmirtz: Hello? Evil scientist speaking! Can you get a hand over here? What? Nothing? Why are they so focused on those dancers?
Rodney: Because it's a dance contest, Heinz. Clear, they're only filming the best dancers!
Doofenshmirtz: Hm. Wait! That's it! Okay. Split up and dance like you've never danced before! Whoever gets on camera first, they deliver our message of evil!
Rodney: Man, they're terrible!
Doofenshmirtz: Ahh! The humanity!!
Rodney: This looks like a job for Aloyse Everheart Elizabeth-
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, can it, Rodney. I think we both know that I'm a better evil dancer than you.
Rodney: (Holds up his hand in Doofenshmirtz' face) See this? It's my hand. You can talk to it.
Doofenshmirtz: All right. Hey hand! My evil dancing's better than yours. It's like you're stuck in a canoe but you've got no oars. See you on the dance floor!
Rodney: Nobody talks to my hand that way!
Major Monogram: (via Perry's wristwatch communicator) Agent P, you must stop Doofenshmirtz and his unnamed gang of evil scientists before they broadcast their message of evil, and interrupt what is going to be my and Carl's favorite show.
(Everyone continues dancing. Cut to Nikki as the judges start to think of eliminating the contestants)
Nikki: Well, this shindig is in full swing! Looks like judges are starting to eliminate dancers, who will survive?
(One judge points to a couple. Their light goes out, and a buzzer sounds. The crowd groans. The same goes for another couple)
Candace: They're eliminating people. Let's kick it up a notch!
(Ferb does a robot-like dance, and the exoskeleton does the same)
Doofenshmirtz: People of the Tri-State Area, you may begin pointing in fear about the endless possibilities in miserable convenience of-
(Doofenshmirtz's light goes out)
Doofenshmirtz: Really? Were you even watching that move?
Rodney: (while doing his ballet) Well, my future subjects of desiring Aloyse Everheart Elizabeth-
(Rodney's light goes out)
Rodney: This is ful zwein...
(Doofenshmirtz pushes a contestant out of the way)
Doofenshmirtz: So I represent the League Of Villainous Evildoers Maniacally United For Frightening Investments-
(The light the evil dancer was on goes out)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah! Philistine! It was a perfectly good Charleston!
(Jeremy starts swinging and spinning Candace like crazy)
Candace: Oh! You are r-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-a--l-l-l-l-l-y-
Stacy: Bravo! Bravo! (tosses a bouquet of flowers) Go, Candace!
(The audience throws flowers onto the stage. A bee flies up from one of them and starts buzzing around Ferb, who flails his arms to shoo it away. Jeremy does the same action)
Random guy: Oh, that guy is awesome!
(The random guy copies it but soon a section of the audience copies him)
Nikki: Looks like someone's a fan favorite.
(Perry helps the judges by semi-violently eliminating the mad scientists. Enough members to fill the Danville Arena were eliminated using really painful moves, which sends them to the intensive care system. For Rodney and Doofenshmirtz, it was a disco ball. For Dr. Diminutive, it simply was part of a pipe. For Dr. Bloodpudding, it was orange paint and part of a bridge. A female scientist had the same color of paint, but another male has pink. Rodney pushes a dancer out of a light but Doofenshmirtz grabs dancer and shoves him and Rodney away)
Doofenshmirtz: This is my spotlight! Who's pushing this dancer out of the way, it's me!
Rodney: Oh no, Doofenshmirtz, I was here first!
Doofenshmirtz: (Goes face-to-face directly with Rodney) Am I gonna have to talk to your hand again?!?!
Rodney: Maybe in your own dumb mind!
(the disco ball falls on Doofenshmirtz and Rodney)
Nikki: And look! There's only one dancer left standing! Let's see what he does.
(Ferb gives the gesture again to Phineas)
(Jeremy ends his dance)

Nikki: (while the audience applaud for Jeremy) Say, that was fabulicious dancing out there! I see quite a future for someone with moves like that!
Candace: Is she saying what a thing she's saying?
Nikki: How'd you like to dance 'til you're sick every week?
Candace: Do it, Jeremy, do it! We could be stars! Dancing stars! We can-
Jeremy: I can't do this. All those great dance moves I've been doing today, it was actually...
(Jeremy pulls out the exoskeleton he used throughout the show)
(Candace shrieks and the audience gasps in horror)
Stacy: That's kind of disturbing.
Jeremy: It was this crazy contraption doing all these dance moves. If you wanna see what a real dancer looks like, then here you go!
(Jeremy pulls the curtain out to reveal Ferb, who's controlling the exoskeleton)
(awkward silence)
Ferb: Well, looks like my work here is done.
(Ferb dances up the pole. The judges then rate Jeremy with a score of 10)
Jeremy: But I'm sorry about all this, Candace. I just didn't want to let you down.
Candace: Oh, Jeremy. You weren't gonna let me down. I just wanted you to come out with me and have a good time! And you know, dance 'til we're sick!
Jeremy: Well, I am feeling a little dizzy.
Candace: I got 'ya, big guy. (They leave the studio)
(At the hospital...)
Doofenshmirtz: (in the intensive care system) They should have called it "Let's All Dance Until We're In Intensive Care".

End credits
(Song: "Spa Day", instrumental)
(Ferb dances, using random dancing moves)
Jeremy: Wow!



(The scene opens up at the front yard of the Flynn-Fletcher residence, where an apron clad Lawrence is carrying a birdhouse towards a tree)
(Song: "My Undead Mummy" [instrumental])
Lawrence: (To three songbirds) Look at that, my fine feathered friends! (He mounts his handiwork onto the tree trunk) Not a bad bit of work, even if I do say so myself. Just wait till you see the hidden surprise. (He pushes a red button on the front of the bird house, which bears the words 'home tweet home'. Its walls spring outward, revealing various miniature items including a fountain and a spiral staircase) Oh, nothing? Not even a sausage? No matter. (He pushes the button once again and the birdhouse folds back to its normal state) Wait until Linda and the kids see it. It'll blow their tiny minds. Well, not their tiny minds, that's not fair.
(The scene shifts and the UNcovery Channel masthead is displayed on screen)
Announcer: You're watching the UNcovery Channel. We now return to Rrrrr?
Narrator: (The camera shifts to the boys who are watching the television show intently) Many believe that in the 1950s, a UFO crash landed in Roswell, New Mexico, but the scientists had no idea what the advanced technology was or how it worked. To find out, they used a process called reverse engineering. By closely examining the individual parts, they were able to build their own craft and figure out what it does, and how it does what it does. Way to go, reverse engineering! The reverse engineering craze reached its zenith in 1982 when new wave band Zanzibar released their smash reverse engineering-related hit, "What Do It Do?"
Band Member: ♪ ...Do do, do do do... ♪
Phineas: Cool! Hey, where's Perry?

(Scene shifts to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Hey, Carl, where's Agent P?
Carl: Oh, he came in early today, sir.
Major Monogram: He did? Heh. Well, good for him. Well, I guess we're done. I'm going home.
Carl: Me, too?
Major Monogram: No, not you.
♪ Doofenshmirtz Rocket-powered Jet Skiff! ♪
(Traps activating)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha! Close, but no... Cigar! See, Perry the Platypus, my new jet rocket skiff has more hidden traps than... (Snaps fingers) Um, uh—What's something with a lot of hidden traps? Huh, wow, I felt so confident going into that sentence. Man, okay. Anyway, you might be wondering why I got such an early start on my evil scheme today. You see, my dating life has been a seemingly endless series of disappointments. It all started at a drive-in movie.
(Flashback to the '80s at the Danville Drive-In)
(Song: "That's Wings, You Turkey")
80's Heinz: (singing along with the radio) ♪ That's wings, you turkey ♪ (coming out of the car) Okay, the coast is clear! You can come out now! (Linda emerges from the trunk)
80's Linda: Eww. It's grody back here!
80's Heinz: Well, on the bright side, you got in for free, so... we'll just split the cost of my ticket, right? Right?
80's Linda: You know, I could've gotten in the trunk, like, a block away instead of when you first picked me up at my house.
80's Heinz: Wow, you just love to live in the past, huh? Is that like a thing with you?
80's Linda: (sighs) Whatever. Let's just try to enjoy the rest of the evening.
80's Heinz: (does a robot dance) I am a happy robot, likey what I hear. I'm just kidding; that's a thing I do. C'mon, hop in!
(Heinz and Linda get in his car)
♪ That's wings, you turkey ♪
Radio Announcer: You were listening to: "That's Wings, You Turkey" by King of Loud. And here's a new one from Zanzibar: "What Do It Do?"
(Song: "What Do It Do?")
(The song has dialogue under)
♪ Do, do, do, do, do, do! ♪
♪ Do, do, do, what do it do? ♪
♪ What'cha gonna does when you don't know what it do? ♪
♪ Do, do, do, do, do, do, do! ♪
♪ What does, what does, what does, what do it do? ♪
♪ Do, do, do, what do it do? ♪
(During the song)
80's Linda: Oh, turn it up! I love this song!
80's Heinz: Eh, it's okay, I'd say it's in my top seven, eight favorite songs about reverse engineering.
80's Linda: Makes me want to be a pop star!
80's Heinz: Ha! Yeah right, and I'm going to rule the world!
80's Linda: Well, why not?
80's Heinz: Yeah, like I could do that.
80's Linda: Maybe instead of, you know, the whole world, uh, start... small, with the Tri-State Area. (dramatic chord plays) Hey, the movie's starting! You have to put the speaker thing on the car.
80's Heinz: Nah-nah-nah. Check this out: (picks up a device) I built this awesome device that transmits the movie sound in fifth-dimensional stereo! I just plug this in here and Voila! (does a robot dance) I am a clever robot. Bing-bong, bing-boing.
(The device starts emitting electrical sparks, which effects all of the speakers in the theatre, and the screen, which explodes and launches into the night sky.)
80's Heinz: Huh. So can we hold hands now?
80's Linda: Take me home.
80's Heinz: Fine. Get in the back.
(The screen falls down and crash-lands on the snack bar.)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) And I never saw her again.
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: Oddly enough, she did become a pop star later! I'm still struggling with the whole Tri-State Area thing, but y'know, the dream is alive. (walking to the other side) Anyway, they recently reopened that drive-in, dredging up all these unpleasant memories for me. So, naturally, I built this. (He gets trapped, and trips, causing the huge device to fall off the rocket-powered jet skiff.) Oh, really?! Really?!!
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house. The device crash lands in the front yard. Candace walks out the house.)
Candace: Okay, Mom, I've gotta get to Stacy's! Love ya! Bye! Oop! (sees the device) Mom Mom! Mom!! C'mere! Look what Phineas and Ferb made in the front yard! Quick!
Linda: Oh, yeah. You're in such a— (zoom in on Linda's shocked expression) The boys built that?!
Candace: (excitedly) Yes! They're always making crazy things like this! See?! See?!
Linda: What is it?!
Candace: Well, obviously, it's a— Why don't you ask/bust them?!
Phineas: Ask/bust us what?
Linda: Do you mind telling me what this is and why you built it in our front yard?!
Phineas: Um...we didn't build this, Mom.
Candace: Ha! Quick! Bust 'em—Wait. You didn't?
Phineas: Not that I'm aware of. no. Ferb? (Ferb shakes his head.)
Linda: No one is going anywhere until we figure out what this is and where it came from!
Phineas: Hmmm... Let's see what this red button's all about—
Linda: Don't...touch it! (Candace and Phineas look at their mother while their attempting to touch it. Ferb has his shoe off and attempts to press it with his foot.) Nobody touches it! I'm calling your father.
(Phineas looks at the device and smiles at his brother.)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb, reverse engineering, huh? Uh? I know what we're gonna do today!
Candace: Think again, Bucko! Mom said "No touchee-touchee!"
Phineas: We don't need to touchee-touchee. We have a portable electronic scanner, gumption, and another portable electronic scanner.
Candace: Well, I'll be watching you closely, so don't think you can get one—
Phineas: All done, Ferb? Cool! Let's get reverse engineering!
(Cut to Lawrence at a presentation.)
Lawrence: And here's the 17th century Whiskershire spring stick, which belonged to the Earl of Whiskershire. (A man dressed in royal garments and a mouse costume appears on screen. Lawrence's phone rings.) Oh, 'scuse me for a second. Hullo.
(Cut to Linda in the house.)
Linda: Honey, do you know about the thing in the front yard?
(Cut back to Lawrence)
Lawrence: (referring to the birdhouse) Oh, yes, of course I do, honey. I made it myself. Do you like it?
(Cut back to Linda.)
Linda: You...made that?!
(Cut back to Lawrence.)
Lawrence: Ahem. Look, darling, I'm in the middle of something right here, so I'll have to phone you back.
Linda: (on phone) But—
Lawrence: Okay, honey, but don't press the red button on it, will you? I want to be there when you see it, okay?
(Cut back to Linda.)
Linda: Well, okay, but I'm really not very comfortable with—
Lawrence: (on phone) Cheers, love! Bye!
(Cut to the rocket-powered jet skiff, which is jetting over Africa. Cut to on board the skiff, where Doof and Perry are now in different traps.)
Doofenshmirtz: You know, in retrospect, I probably went a little overboard with the traps on this thing. Alright, I'm gonna try to reach the release switch for the trap holding your arms. Then you try to reach the steering wheel and change our course away from Mount Kilimanjaro. Interesting trivia...
(Song: "Kronk for Hire" (instrumental))
Doofenshmirtz (cont'd): (like a cheesy tour guide) Mount Kilimanjaro is actually comprised of three volcanic cones: Kibo, Shira, and the one that we're about to crash into, Mawenzi. Cool, huh? (Doof struggles to get to the button until finally pressing it.) There! Oh. Oh, that wasn't the release. Who knows what that did?
(Cut to the front yard. The device begins buzzing and steaming. Cut back to Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: (reaching for the bottom button) This one should be the right—Okay...I....got it! (Perry gets released) Quick! (Perry jumps onto a cage and steers the skiff away from Mawenzi. He falls backwards and gets trapped...again.) You know, Perry the Platypus, I just— A golf course! A golf course has a lot of traps in it! That's what I shoulda said.
(Cut back to the front yard. Linda approaches the device and her daughter.)
Linda: Well, it turns out your father is responsible for this—Hold on, is it...buzzing?
Candace: Yes. Yes, it is.
Linda: Okay, stay calm! (grabs and drags her daughter) Just move away from it!
(Cut to the backyard, where Phineas, the gang...and Irving are in lab coats standing before a duplicate of the device and a chalkboard with diagrams on it.)
Phineas: Friends, bullies, Irving, at 0900 hours, a UCO (or Unidentified Crashing Object) landed in our front yard. We reverse engineered a piece-by-piece duplicate of the strange object. We have called you here to help us discover what this object is and how it works.
(Song: "What Do It Do?")
Zanzibar: ♪ What'cha gonna does when you don't know what it do? ♪
♪ Do, do, do, do, do, do, do! ♪
♪ It's way too big to be a buckle, and too bland to be a belly dancer! ♪
♪ Or when it tries to guess your height, it's never right unless you're three-foot-two. ♪
♪ When you come or go, you can't tell if it waves goodbye or waves hello! ♪
♪ And in the library it's useless 'cause it don't care when the books are due! ♪
♪ Do, do, do, do, do, do, do. ♪
♪ It doesn't seem to understand the game is not rock-paper-scissors-spaniel! ♪
♪ Instead of picking up the trash it started picking Lady Liberty's nose! ♪
♪ It makes a lousy baseball umpire or brow-wiper for bongo players! ♪
♪ And when it walks a dog it never really pays attention where it goes! ♪
♪ Do, do, do, do, do, do, do. ♪
♪ Do, do, do, do, do. ♪
♪ What do it do? ♪
(Cut back to the presentation, where Lawrence shows a slide of a bunch of townsfolk dressed as mice.)
Lawrence: Soon, the entire village of Whiskershire began following the Earl's lead to, of course... (phone rings again) Uh, do forgive me. I-I-I'm awfully sorry. Hello?
(Cut to Linda in the front yard.)
Linda: Lawrence, you have to come home right now! This thing is freakin' me out!
(Cut back to Lawrence.)
Lawrence: Uh, L-Linda, my dear, I love you, but you couldn't have chosen a worse moment to go completely bonkers! I'm sorry, but I've got to call you back! Bye!
(Cut back to the front yard.)
Linda: (very Candace-esque) Ohhhh, he doesn't believe me!! He said I sound crazy!!
Candace: (gasps in realization) Ohhhhh, reeeeeeally???
Linda: Yeah! You know I'm not imagining this!
Candace: Of course not! Gosh, that must be so frustrating to have someone not believe you when you're telling the truth!
Linda: Oh, you don't know the half of it.
Candace: That feeling you have right now: that's how I feel every single day when you don't believe me about what Phineas and Ferb are doing! Now that you finally understand, would you come with me to the backyard?
Linda: Why?
Candace: Now, keep in mind how Dad just made you feel, okay? Phineas and Ferb have reverse-engineered and built an exact duplicate of this thing and at this very moment, they're trying to figure out what it does by forcing it to belly dance and work in a library. (smiles)
Linda: Candace, honey, I love you, but you couldn't have chosen a worse moment to go completely bonkers!
(Cut to gay Paris, where the skiff is flying past the Eiffel Tower.)
Doofenshmirtz: (yelling below) Pierre!! (giggles to Perry) Did anyone look? A-hee-hee-hee! I betcha, like, half the people down there are looking around, like (fake French accent) "Who called my name?" (laughs in his normal voice)
(Cut to the backyard where Isabella and Baljeet are sitting at a dinner table with a candle on it.)
Baljeet: You know, Isabella, I sometimes wonder if it was mere coincidence that it was you and I chosen to portray the young, happy couple.
Isabella: "Chosen?" Baljeet, you charged to that empty chair like a crazed wolf.
(Phineas approaches the table with the device, both dressed a maitre d' and a waiter, respectively.)
Phineas: Ah, here we are, madame and monsieur.
(The device spots something. POV shot from the device as it locks its target onto the candle.)
Phineas: And what can I get for you this afternoon?
(The device drops its tray and swipes the candle off the table.)
Phineas: Ah-buh-bup! (the device stops) Give. (The device approaches Phineas, bowing apologetically, and gives him the candle.) Hmm... Interesting.
(Cut to the front yard. Linda and Candace are now in a fox hole behind some sacks of potatoes dressed in a pot and a colander respectively, as if they are watching enemy lines in a war. Linda looks at the device through binoculars.)
Linda: Okay, there's been no change in the last ten minutes. I should call your father.
Candace: You know, Mom, I understand. Obviously, you're not gonna come see what Phineas and Ferb are up to until this is resolved. So here's what we're gonna do! First of all, no more calling Dad! If I don't convince you to come home to bust the boys after a couple of calls, I go get you!
Linda: But what if he doesn't wanna come with me?
Candace: Did that ever stop me?
(Linda smiles sneakily.)
(Cut back to Lawrence.)
Lawrence: This statue, which stands outside the Whiskershire Rectory, still holds the Earl's actual spring stick, yes. The spring stick is used as such: it's placed in front of you so as to spring the hidden mousetraps to avoid capture. Now some suggest—
(Linda marches onstage and pushes her husband off.)
Linda: Move it, Fletcher!
Lawrence: Oh, any questions?
(Everyone in the auditorium raises their hands.)
(Cut to Whiskershire.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Ah, the quaint town of Whiskershire. It's a great place to fly nilly-willy through, manacled to a rocket skiff this time of year.
(Perry takes out a pin and unlocks his trap and escapes. He dodges the next trap and sees the spring stick on the statue. He hangs onto the bottom wing and swipes the stick. He uses the stick to spring all the hidden traps, and then steers the skiff back to the Tri-State Area.)
(Cut back to the backyard.)
Phineas: Friends, bullies, Irving, we've reached our conclusion as to the purpose of the object that landed in our front yard. We believe that it is an anti-romance rocket created to scan for, and then eliminate romantic elements from potentially amorous situations.
Isabella, Baljeet and Irving: Ohhhhhh.
Buford: So it's not a wedgie machine?
(Cut to Linda and Lawrence in the station wagon. Linda is giggling in the manner of her daughter.)
Linda: Hehehehehehehehehehehehe...
(Cut to the front yard.)
Candace: (on the phone) Hehehehehehehehehehehehe... This is gonna be awesome, Stace! So when they get home, I'm gonna drag both of them into the backyard and it'll be a busting feeding frenzy!!!
(Song: "Busting Feeding Frenzy")
Candace (cont'd): (dancing crazily) ♪ Bustin' feedin' frenzy, stay out of the water ♪
(Cut back to the rocket skiff. Perry jumps over the edge.)
Doofenshmirtz: W-W-Wait a minute! Perry the Platypus, where are you—? Oh!
(Agent P's parachute comes out of his bag.)
♪ Agent P! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Platypus!
(The spring stick falls from the rocket and presses the red button.)
Candace: ♪ Bustin' feedin' frenzy, stay out of the water ♪
♪ It's a bustin' feedin' frenzy, stay out of the water ♪
(While Candace keeps dancing, the device buries the spring stick and launches. It sees the duplicate in the backyard with a heart in its eye.)
Barry White soundalike: ♪ Oh, yeah. I like the way the sunlight glistens off your chrome ♪
(The two devices fall in love and launch off into the sun.)
Phineas: Wow. Two anti-romance rockets falling in love.
Buford: That's what I call "ironing".
(Cut back to the dancing maniac known as Candace.)
Candace: ♪ It's a bustin' feedin' frenzy, stay out of the water ♪
♪ It's a bustin' feedin' frenzy, stay out of the water ♪
(The station wagon pulls up.)
Linda: There! Tell me that's not terrifying!
Lawrence: (looking at his daughter) I'm so sorry I doubted you.
Candace: ♪ Going down down down at the busting feeding frenzy stay out of the water!!! ♪
Linda: (overlapping) Wait...But...Candace, where did that thing go?
Candace: (stops dancing) Hmmm. I don't know! But, Mom, you and Dad hafta come to the backyard with me right now and see what the boys are— (Sees the two devices rocketing over the house leaving a puff of smoke in the shape of a heart. She sighs.) Nevermind.
(Cut to the gang...and Irving in the backyard.)
Isabella: I wonder what would make someone want to build something to destroy romance in the first place.
Ferb: Well, if you reverse-engineer the human heart, you're bound to find love at its core.
Buford: And...gross smushy red stuff!
Ferb: Yes. Love and gross smushy red stuff.
Irving: And ventricles!
Ferb: Actually, I think ventricles are already included in gross smushy red stuff.
All but Ferb: Yeah.



(At the beach, Candace is beginning to relax)
Candace: Ahh, a nice relaxing day at the beach. Nothing but the waves, the sun and peace and quiet...
Baljeet: Buford drank all the sunscreen!
Buford: Coconut is my favorite flavor!
Isabella: Who wants to play volleyball?
Candace: I spoke too soon.
Linda: Oh, Candace, look, there is a sandcastle building contest over there. You used to love those. You should sign up!
Candace: Yeah! Wait... (mutter) Why brother? With these two here, there will be no competition. They'll build a real skyscraper out of sand, with a working elevator, and window-washers, and a parking garage with flying cars! They'll totally steal my thunder!
Phineas: Actually, there are something else we may be doing today. With a minimal amount of research, Ferb found out that the lost city of Atlantis is probably located right off the coast of Danville!
Isabella: Ooh! I hope I will see a real life seahorse! And get my Underwater Equestrian Patch!
Buford: I'd like to see a shark! I heard that those are the toughest fish in the ocean.
Irving: I got in the car when your mom stopped for gas. I'm just happy to be here.
Buford: Wow...
Irving: Ooh, and I bought my camera, to take pictures of all the action!
Phineas: Guess we know what we're doing today. Hey, where's Perry?
Male singer: ♪ Doo wa doo be doo wa doo be doo be doo wa.♪ Thank you, thank you very much.
(Perry jumps into the man's guitar case)
♪ Agent P !♪
Carl: (Imitating Major Monogram) Ahh, Agent P! Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been to every plant-nursery in town, buying up little seedlings and now he's out with he's blimp. Find out what he's up to!
Major Monogram: Carl?
Carl: Ohh... eheheh... sir?
Major Monogram: Are those my old mustache clippings?
Carl: Some of them?
Major Monogram: Sorry you had to see that, Agent P. Please find out what Doofenshmirtz is up to!
Phineas: Hey, Mom! We're gonna go find the lost city of Atlantis! Be back later!
Linda: What some imaginations...
Candace: Mom! Oooh! They're leaving! Mom, get out the turret molds. We've got a sandcastle to build!
Phineas: Okay everybody, follow me! And remember, if you get lost, the surface is up!
(They all walk down to the sea floor)
Irving: Wow! Is that the Titanic over there?
Isabella: Look! It's Amelia Earhart!
Baljeet: Ah, the tomb of Poseidon.
Phineas: Focus, guys. We're looking for Atlantis, remember? (to Ferb) Which way, Ferb?
GPS: Take phytoplankton road north.
Irving: Hold it! (He takes a picture) That one's for my wallet!
Baljeet: Why is water always so warm next to you?
(Up at the sandcastle building competition)
Linda: I'm so glad that you wanted to join the contest. This'll be fun!
Candace: If we're going to do this, we gonna do it right! Here, fill these buckets with water, I'm going to go find some sand.
Doofenshmirtz: (Spraying the plants in his blimp) Lunchtime, my little plant friends! Yes, you like your water, don't you! Everyone gets H2O, even you little... Oh, Perry the Platypus! You landed into my fertilizer trap! Look at you. You've potting soiled yourself! (He laughs) So, I got to thinking, why use animals or insects to aid in my evil scheme, when there are these shiftless do-nothing-plants just laying around? So, I've created a super evil growth formula, that when sprayed on my plants, that will turn them into thorny, prickly minions! With them under my control, I will rule the Tri-State Area with an iron fist, and a green thumb! Hahahaha... (He sniffs) And, if you don't mind, I'm going upwind of you.
Phineas: We're almost there, guys!
GPS: Turn right at kelp.
Irving: These sculls are pretty cool! (An eel takes Irving's camera) Hey!
Phineas: It's okay, Irving, you still have the greatest camera ever made.
Irving: Where?
Phineas: Right here, the human mind. You can take pictures with your mind and store them in your memory. Try it!
Irving: Okay... Click! Well, I guess that worked...
Isabella: Seahorses!
Baljeet: You can get your Underwater Equestrian Patch now!
Isabella: Umm... that was a joke. They're way to small to ride...
Buford: Not if you scoop up a whole bunch of them! (He scoops up school of seahorses, and rides seahorses) Giddy up!
Phineas: Hey, guys. Look what I found! A door with ancient runes telling us how to open it!
Buford: Forget that! Step aside! (He punches the door, revealing Atlantis)
Phineas: Or that.
(Song: Atlantis)
Male Singers: ♪ Atlantis, ♪
♪ Submerged city, you enchant us, ♪
Irving: Click!
Male Singers: ♪ Oh Poseidon, please grant us ♪
♪ Entry to the city of Atlantis! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Atlantis is a city at the bottom of the sea, ♪
♪ It's soggier now than it used to be, ♪
♪ 'Cause it used to be above now it's down below, ♪
All: ♪ It's the waterlogg-ed city of Atlantis! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Every room and every house has an oceanic view, ♪
♪ If you shoo away a whale or a manatee or two, ♪
♪ There's not a better, wetter place for you to go ♪
All: ♪ Than the waterlogg-ed city of Atlantis! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Well, the forecast says the humidity is high, ♪
♪ and it's not your kind of place if you wanna stay dry, ♪
♪ You can always have tea with the sea anemone ♪
♪ In the waterlogg-ed city of Atlantis ♪
Everyone but Ferb: ♪ In the waterlogg-ed city ♪
♪ In the waterlogg-ed city ♪
♪ In the waterlogg-ed city ♪
♪ In the waterlogg-ed city ♪
♪ In the waterlogg-ed city ♪
♪ In the waterlogg-ed city ♪
♪ In the waterlogg-ed city ♪
Baljeet: And everything is so pretty
Everyone: ♪ In the waterlogg-ed city of Atlantis! ♪
Irving: Okay everyone, move closer, while I put my camera on a timer!
Buford: (whispering) I think he's taken this camera thing into a weird level.
Irving: Say cheese! Click!
Baljeet: We are so privileged to be in this strange and beautiful place. To think that the greatest mind in history have been searching for Atlantis for thousands of years.
Buford: Those guys are punks.
Phineas: We should bring this up to the surface for the whole world to see!
Baljeet: Oh, yes. That is a great idea.
Isabella: How do we do it?
Buford: Up! Up!
Candace: (Candace and Linda's Sandcastle falls over) Err! This is the third time it's fallen! I used to be good at this! Now I'm Frank Lloyd Wrong! When did it get so hard?
Girl: (Standing next to her sandcastle) Oh man, this is super simple!
Candace: Argh, I hate this stupid contest. I quit!
Linda: Hon, will you relax? This is supposed to be fun.
Jeremy: Hey, Candace! Hey, Mrs. Flynn-Fletcher!
Candace: Jeremy?! Hi! (She stutters) What brings you to the magnificent shores of Danville?
Jeremy: Well, I'm the judge of the contest this year.
Candace: No way!
Jeremy: Way! I'm excited to see what you two come up with! But you better get started, time's tickin'!
Candace: Mom? Why are you just standing there? Sand castles don't build themselves. Chop chop!
Doofenshmirtz: You see, Perry the Platypus? Your efforts to try to stop me have been fruitless. Fruitless. Y-you like that one? Yeah, that's a good one! Fruitless? Next time you'll "leaf" me alone! Heh heh heh. Yes, Perry teh Platypus, I can be a fun guy. Get it? Fungi? The plural of fungus? Heheh... it's a... Yeah... Anyway, grow my green minions and get him! (He turns on a machine, and sprays the plants, making them thorny, carnivorous, and sentient) Wait, wait not me, not me... Hey, wait, don't be, don't be grab... I gotta turn this off... this has become a thorny situation...
(The plants soon ensnare Doofenshmirtz, and overrun the entire blimp)
Delivery Man: Four weather balloons and helium canisters, for underwater delivery...
Phineas: That's us!
Delivery Man: Aren't you kids a little young to be discovering Atlantis?
Phineas: Yes, yes we are.
Deliver Man: Well, good for you.
Phineas: Alright guys, let's get to work!
(Candace and Linda frantically work on the sandcastle)
Candace: Oh no, Jeremy is almost here!
Doofenshmirtz: Help, Perry the Platypus, help! (The plants squeeze Perry out of his trap) Yes, yes, Perry, you got it! That's it, you're free now, and move over here... wait! Where are you going? Perry the Platyp... (Doofenshmirtz gets slapped by a vine)
Phineas: Okay guys, tie the balloons to the four corners of Atlantis. Looks good, Ferb!
(The balloons inflate, and Atlantis rise up)
All: Wohooo! It's working!
(On the beach)
Jeremy: (Judging a sandcastle) Lookin' good, guys!
Candace: (To Linda) Looks kinda...
Linda: ...cool!
Candace: (A piece of their sandcastle falls off) This is horrible! Jeremy's gonna take one look at this, and think that I'm a big losery loser!
Linda: Oh, honey, Jeremy's smart enough to separate your sandcastle from his feelings about you!
Jeremy: Okay, now last, but not least, we have the Flynn-Fletchers...
(Atlantis rises up behind Candace and Linda)
Candace: Well, it's not perfect but... we had fun doing it, so, I give you, our sandcastle.
Jeremy: (looking up, and seeing Atlantis) Holy Moly, Candace!
Candace: I know, I know, it's not great, but we did our best.
Jeremy: Are you kidding? It's amazing! You win, you win! I'm gaining to get your blue ribbon.
Candace: Huh?
Doofenshmirtz: (A vine chomps down on Doofenshmirtz's nose) AHH!
(Perry comes in through the window, with weed-whackers, and proceeds to cut through the plants)
(A few of the thorny plant vines pop the balloons holding up Atlantis, letting Atlantis sink again)
Linda: I have to say, I think Jeremy can't separate his feelings for you from his feelings for this sand castle. He must like you more than you thought...
Candace: Hehe. I know! Let's go get that blue ribbon!

End Credits
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, you came back and saved me! Thank you, Perry the Platy... (He begins to breakout) Hey... wha... what's this? I'm having an allergic reaction to these stupid plants! Curse you, inadequate immune system!
Baljeet: What happened?
Isabella: Did anybody see it?
Buford: Why did it go back down?
Ferb: Perhaps the lost city of Atlantis wanted to stay lost.
Irving: At least I got the pictures in my head. Hey! I had my thumb in front of the lens the whole time! Oh, now all I remember is my thumb!



Contents[show]
Act I
(Song: "Phineas and Ferb Theme")
Chorus: ♪ There are two wondrous weeks for our winter vacation, ♪
♪ Before New Years and school comes to end it, ♪
♪ So the holiday challenge for kids of all nations, ♪
♪ Is finding a good way to spend it... ♪
Phineas: (He and Ferb are in their beds, on top of a massive ski jump) Ahh! Christmas Eve. It was a great idea to climb back into bed this morning. Oh! I almost forgot! Helmets! All set? Let's do this thing.
Bowling For Soup and Chorus: ♪ Like maybe... ♪
Bowling For Soup: ♪ Turning our beds into dual toboggans, ♪
♪ And sliding down a ski jump tower! ♪
♪ Building a snowman the size of Colossus, ♪
♪ Or giving a yeti a shower! ♪
Chorus: ♪ Fa, la, la, la! ♪
Bowling For Soup: ♪ Staging a snowball fight, ♪
♪ With giant catapults, ♪
♪ And snow angels that really fly! ♪
♪ Rocking a Christmas carol, ♪
♪ Wrapping a present, ♪
♪ Or just shoveling snow off the drive! ♪
Phineas: Well, they can't all be fun.
Bowling For Soup: ♪ As you can see there's a whole lot of stuff to do before school starts next year, ♪
♪ So stick with us ♪
♪ 'Cause Phineas and Ferb are gonna spread some Christmas cheer! ♪
♪ So stick with us ♪
♪ 'Cause Phineas and Ferb are gonna spread some Christmas cheer! ♪
Candace: Mom, Phineas and Ferb are making a Christmas special!

(Scene opens up showing Phineas and Ferb's bed toboggans land on snow.)
Phineas: We're slowing down.
(Ferb presses a button and a rocket appears at the back, which then launches off)
Phineas: I...see...why...dogs...enjoy...this...sensation!!!!!
(The following scene shifts between Candace's room and a terminal at the airport)
Candace: Delayed! What do you mean delayed?
Linda: Candace, honey, the snow storm has delayed your grandparents' plane. Your father and I have to wait here at the airport until they arrived. It may be hours...
Candace: But I need your help! Stacy told me that Marcos told her that Jeremy told him that he got the perfect gift for me!
Linda: (sarcastically) Oh no. How will you manage?
Candace: Mom, think! If Jeremy found the perfect gift for me, then I have to find the perfect gift for him!
Linda: I thought you already got a gift for Jeremy.
Candace: I did, but I can't show up with an obvious, stupid present that anyone could've gotten him. The perfect gift means that you totally get the other person in the most deep and paying-attention-y way. If his gift to me is perfect and my gift to him isn't, he's gonna be so hurt and insulted, and think I'm lame and thoughtless, and he'll stop liking me! (bawling)
Linda: Oh, Candace, honey, I don't think... You poor thing. (pauses; sighs) Forgive me, boys. What are your brothers up to?
Candace: (slipping into busting mode) Not a thing. Which is weird. What are they up to? (Talks fast) Love you, Mom, gotta run, bye!
(Candace hangs up then peers out of her room with a glare. The camera pans down the hall and stops at the boys' bedroom door.)
(Scene then shifts to outside where a street is being plowed.)
Phineas: Plow!
(Ferb hits a few buttons, the bed toboggan avoids the plow, and it goes off of a snow ramp)
(Candace sneaks down the hall towards Phineas and Ferb's room)
Candace: Ee-ee-ee-ee...
Phineas: House!
(Ferb hits a button on his remote, and the boys' window opens up)
Phineas: We're coming in too fast!
(Ferb pulls a lever and deploys parachute)
Candace: Those two are sooooo busted! (yanks open door, realizes the boys are there) ...For lolly-gagging in bed? (The parachute deflates outside) That's not like you two.
Phineas: We've been working on a way to seize the day, while also not having to get out of bed so early. I think we can cross that one off our To-do List.
Candace: Let me see that. (She snatches Ferb's clipboard) What is this? Number one was write letters to Santa Claus. What, did you start this To-Do list when you were three years old?!
Phineas: We write letters to Santa Claus every year. Don't you?
Candace: Wah-hahahaha! Letters to Santa?!? Ahahahaha! That's for little kids! Hahaha!
Phineas: Santa's not just for little kids, Candace.
Candace: Okay, fine. Let's assume there is a Santa Claus.
Phineas: Well of course there is. There's been a ton of reported sightings. Oregon, 1978. Northern Scotland, 1954. The so-called Santa Cloth found in Istanbul, 1912.
(Phineas shows Candace a slide show of the reported sightings)
Phineas: Santa's one of our biggest heroes. Talk about making the most out of one day. Imagine flying around the whole world, delivering toys and gifts to everybody in one night. Ferb and I have done some cool stuff in our time, but that, that's something else.
Candace: Again, let's assume there is a Santa Claus. He's got it easy. The hard part is trying to figure out what to get people want when they don't write you a letter, telling you exactly what they want most. And by "people" I mean "Jeremy", and by "you", I mean "me"... and uh, no the rest is pretty much literal.
Phineas: Well I'm sure Jeremy would get exactly what he wanted. If he wrote his own letter to Santa.
Candace: Bwahahaha, letters to Santa!? (Laughs) That's for little kids. (Laughs)
Phineas: Wow. She's lapped us.
Candace: Wait that's it! I'll trick Jeremy into writing a letter to Santa, so I can sneak a peek and learn what he wants straight from the horse's mouth. And by "mouth" I mean "pen", and by "horse" I mean Jeremy, and... yeah we're good.
Phineas: Or you could ask him directly what he wants to avoid any unnecessary complications.
(Candace just stares at him, then laughs off his idea)
Candace: You are such a child sometimes. (She leaves the boys' room)
Phineas: You know, Ferb, just think of all the wonderful things Santa does for us, and he never asks for anything in return. Wait, that's it! Ferb, are you thinking what I'm thinking?
(Ferb hands Phineas a blueprint. Phineas studies it for a second)
Phineas: As usual, we're...Oh! Ugh! Man, no, that's not at all what I was thinking! Oh! Dude!
(Ferb turns the blueprint right-side up)
Phineas: Oh. Yeah. That's it. I'll call in the troops, you wonder where Perry is.
(As Phineas leaves the room, Ferb makes a thoughtful face)
♪ Fa la la la la la, la la la la la la, fa la la la la la la! ♪
(Perry puts a top hat on the snowman outside the Flynn-Fletcher house. It comes to life, a la "Frosty the Snowman")
Snowman: Hello! Wintertime's fun! Follow me! (Motions to Perry, begins to walk toward the road. Perry follows him.) Come on! Follow me! ...plow!!!
(The camera is on Perry, so we do not see the snowman's demise. Perry covers his eyes. All that is left of the snowman is his carrot nose)
(Perry comes out of an elevator into the O.W.C.A.'s headquarters)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. there you are. Merry Christmas. Oh great, you brought snacks.
(Major Monogram eats the snowman's carrot nose)
Major Monogram: Wintertime's fun, follow me.
Carl: Secret Santa time. Agent P. Ah, here you are.
(Perry unwraps his gift)
Carl: Oh, a "Sal Tuscany Christmas". You lucked out, Agent P. Your secret Santa has exquisite taste.
Major Monogram: (Glaring) Criminy, Carl. It's supposed to be a secret Santa.
Carl: What? No! I didn't get it for him.
Major Monogram: Huh, right. (Chuckles)
Carl: No, really I didn't!
Major Monogram: The more you protest, the more we know you gave it to him.
Carl: Fine! Think what you want! Whatever! (Huffs in anger)
Major Monogram: Okay, Scrooge. We got it.
(Monogram's wrist communicator sounds an alarm)
Major Monogram: Uh-oh, sorry Agent P. I guess evil never takes a holiday. If you'll direct your attention to the screen. Good morning Agent P. A wise man once said... eyes on the screen.
(Perry looks back to see Carl filming Monogram, who's holding a cutout of his normal uniform. Perry then turns back around)
Major Monogram: A wise man once said, "Evil never takes a holiday". We don't know what Doofenshmirtz is up to. But he's evil, and evil people hate Christmas. It's a cliche, sad cliche. Good luck, Agent P, and Merry Christmas.
(Carl's butt appears on the screen Perry was watching)
Major Monogram: Carl! Stop filming your butt, film mine. It's a party!
(Jeremy's cell phone rings, waking him up)
Jeremy: Hello?
Candace: Happy Christmas Eve, my little drummer boy.
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. You know I don't play drums. I play guitar.
Candace: I know silly-billy. So, Whatcha doin?
(Isabella puts down newspaper, and looks around, sensing that someone has used her catchphrase)
Jeremy: Not sleeping anymore. How 'bout you?
Candace: I just thought it was the perfect day to show some Christmas spirit. Like when you were young and wrote letters to Santa... (Phineas and Ferb are seen hosting some of their thing to thank Santa) Would you keep that lame junk away from my window!? (to Jeremy) I'm sorry, what was I saying?
Jeremy: ...Writing letters to Santa Claus?
Candace: Bwahahaha, letters to Santa!? Oh! Brilliant idea. Let's get together and write letters to Santa, and be very specific, within a reasonable price range. For fun. I'll be over in a bit.
Jeremy: Candace, this isn't one of these thing...
(Candace hangs up on Jeremy)
Candace: Hehehe, he doesn't suspect a thing. (pause) I just hope this works... (sits on her bed) 'Cause I don't have a clue.
(Song: "What Does He Want?")
Candace: ♪ What kind of present does he dream about? ♪
♪ A leather wallet or a singing trout ♪
♪ What I should get him is a mystery ♪
♪ And if it's lame, will he still want me? ♪
Stacy/Jenny: ♪ What does he want? ♪
Candace: ♪ A DVD or some video games ♪
Stacy/Jenny: ♪ What does he want? ♪
Candace: ♪ Or maybe one of those new digital frames ♪
Stacy/Jenny: ♪ What does he want? ♪
Candace: ♪ Something to fit his personality ♪
Stacy/Jenny: ♪ What does he want? ♪
Candace: ♪ The perfect present is eluding me ♪
Candace: ♪ My friends all tell me that I shouldn't obsess ♪
♪ But how can I avoid the stress? ♪
♪ I need to know, but right now all I can do is guess ♪
Stacy/Jenny: ♪ What does he want? ♪
Candace: ♪ A fancy cell phone or a tube of grout ♪
Stacy/Jenny: ♪ What does he want? ♪
Candace: ♪ I don't know, but I'll figure it out ♪
Stacy/Jenny: ♪ What does he want? ♪
Candace: ♪ Rear-view mirror glasses as seen on TV ♪
Stacy/Jenny: ♪ What does he want? ♪
Candace: ♪ I only wish I knew what he got me... ♪
'Cause I hear it's perfect.
♪ What does he want? ♪
(Music: "S'Winter" (instrumental)")
(On top of the Flynn-Fletcher house is a giant structure, welcoming Santa)
Phineas: Awesome! Phase one complete. Hey guys.
(Isabella, Buford, and Baljeet walk up)
Buford: Cool clubhouse.
Phineas: Oh, no. This is not how you would say a "clubhouse". This is the ultimate rest and relaxation lounge, perfectly tailored to the jolly, rubenesque world traveler. (Awkward pause) It's a rest stop for Santa.
Isabella: Oh, I see.
Baljeet: Oh, why did you not just say that?
Phineas: Highlights include: sauna, massage table, satellite television, elliptical machine to work off all the milk and cookies, milk and cookies, reindeer feeding station, and of course, beard purifier. But this is only the beginning. Remember when you wrote letters to Santa asking him for presents?
Isabella/Buford/Baljeet: Yes.
Candace: (from inside) BWAH HA HA HA HA! LETTERS TO SANTA!?! AH HA HA!!
Phineas: Did you always get the presents you asked for?
Isabella/Buford/Baljeet: Pretty much, yes!
Phineas: Of course. Now did you ever write a thank-you note to Santa?
Isabella/Buford/Baljeet: Well, no, but...nobody ever told... (sighs) no.
Phineas: Well, I think it's time someone did something cool for Santa to show him we appreciate everything he does for us. So we're gonna turn the entire city of Danville into a giant, shimmering thank-you card for Santa Claus.
Buford: So what you're saying is it's not a clubhouse.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
(Perry bursts through Doofenshmirtz's wall)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus. I have a present for you. And by "present," of course, I mean "trap." (Perry is wrapped in Christmas lights) Aw, look how festive you are. Wait, wait, hold on. (Puts a partridge on Perry's bill) ♪ And a partridge on a Perry ♪ ... the Platypus! Now, Perry the Platypus, behold! The Naughty-inator! When activated, the naughty nectar in these giant glass cylinders will create a massive charged cloud of pure naughtiness. When Santa then makes his list, and checks it twice, everyone in the Tri-State Area will appear to be naughty instead of nice! And no nice equals no Santa equals no Christmas. There's just one tiny, little blemish on my otherwise perfect plan. I don't actually have a problem with Christmas. There's no tragic holiday-related back-story in my past. Christmas was always fine growing up. It wasn't great, it wasn't horrible. You see, unlike every other evil scientist, I don't hate Christmas. There are plenty of other holidays I can't stand. ♪ For example... ♪ Wait, wait, hold on. I can't get this— ♪ Uh, for example... ♪
(Song: "I Really Don't Hate Christmas")
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ You see Valentine's is torture ♪
♪ And my birthday is a mess ♪
♪ New Year's is a lot of noise, and Arbor Day's a pest ♪
♪ Halloween's a horror but I guess I must confess ♪
♪ That I really don't hate Christmas! ♪
♪ You see Flag Day is infernal, April Fool's is just a bore, ♪
♪ Mardi Gras a waste, unless you own a candy store, ♪
♪ All these other holidays I can admit that I abhor ♪
♪ But I really don't hate Christmas ♪
♪ Now, it isn't that I like it, all the most I feel ambivalence, ♪
♪ But should I really just destroy it? I'll admit that I'm still on the fence ♪
♪ It makes me tense! ♪
♪ From the evil scientist community I'm sure to get ejected, ♪
♪ But for Christmas I can't seem to summon any true invective, ♪
♪ Because what is there to hate? I mean, it's really so subjective. ♪
♪ No, I really don't hate Christmas. ♪
♪ I hate puppy dogs and kittens, I hate flowers in the spring, ♪
♪ Heck, I even hate the sunshine and the birdies when they sing, ♪
♪ I can work up animosity for almost anything ♪
♪ Tell me why I don't hate Christmas ♪
♪ Though my childhood was atrocious, Christmas never was that bad, you see, ♪
♪ So the most that I can muster is complete and total apathy ♪
♪ What's wrong with me? ♪
♪ How can I prove that I'm an evil villain worth his salt ♪
♪ When with a holiday so jolly I can't even find a fault? ♪
♪ If I didn't feel ambiguous I'd launch a big assault, ♪
♪ But I really don't hate Christmas ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, what the heck. Kickline!
♪ No, I really... ♪
♪ No, I really don't hate Christmas! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I have an intense BURNING indifference!
Doofenshmirtz: I didn't even create the Naughty-inator myself because I compulsively, obsessively, just couldn't be bothered. Nah, the plans were mailed to me from Borneo where my Uncle Justin is rumored to be in hiding. It's really a sweet gift, but how can I destroy Christmas without having a good reason? (sighs) Well, I guess I have no choice. (Presses a button and a chair pops out of the ground and he flops in it) But to sit and wait for a reason.

Act II
(Scene opens up showing Phineas and Ferb on a podium)
Phineas: Alright everyone, I want to thank you all for helping. Grab yourself some decorations, and let's get our grateful on.
(Song: "That Christmas Feeling")
♪ We're hanging the star above our tree, ♪
♪ And don't it look lovely? ♪
♪ The lights and the tinsel sparkling for you! ♪
♪ I got that Christmas feeling, ♪
♪ I take it everywhere I go. ♪
♪ And make that Christmas feeling grow! ♪
♪ So warm by the fireplace we glow, ♪
♪ All cozy and happy. ♪
♪ Hang all the stockings in a row with you! ♪
♪ I got that Christmas feeling, ♪
♪ I take it everywhere I go! ♪
♪ And make that Christmas feeling grow. ♪
♪ It feels like Christmas (Christmas), ♪
♪ Christmas (Christmas), ♪
♪ Come on, I know you don't want to miss this! ♪
♪ Let's make that Christmas feeling grow, ♪
♪ Oh! Let's make that Christmas feeling grow! ♪
Candace: ♪ Got that Christmas feeling, tricked Jeremy into writing a letter to Santa. Yeah, yeah, it's that old Christmas feeling, singing what I'm doing yeah, yeah. ♪ (to Jeremy) Hello my little red nosed reindeer, ready to write our letters to Santa?
Jeremy: Hey, in a minute Candace. I'm right in the middle of something here. I was thinking you could maybe help me finish decorating. First.
Candace: No! It'll be too late! The stores will all be closed! And by "stores" I mean "the post office", and "by buying a gift", I mean "mailing the letters".
Jeremy: You didn't say "buying a gift".
Candace: Oh, good. That would have been a dead giveaway.
Phineas: Hey, everyone! The next decoration delivery is here!
Jeremy: The tinsel!
Candace: W-wait, come back! Our letters! We have to write them quickly! I already licked the stamps!

(Back at Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: You know, all I really want for Christmas is the ability to hate Christmas. Is that too much to ask? (knock on door) Hmm, were you expecting anyone?
Carolers: ♪ We wish you a Merry Christmas ♪
♪ We wish you a Merry Christmas ♪
♪ We wish you a Merry Christmas ♪
♪ And a Happy New Year ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, yes. How can you hate Christmas listening to that?
Carolers: ♪ Now bring us some figgy pudding ♪
♪ Now bring us some figgy pudding ♪
Doofenshmirtz: "Bring us figgy pudding." (chuckles) Well you can say please. But you know whatever great. Figgy pudding.
Carolers: ♪ We won't go until we get some ♪
♪ We won't go until we get some ♪
♪ We won't go until we get some ♪
♪ So bring some right here. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Whoa! What! Are you threatening me?
Carolers: ♪ We won't go until we get some. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: How dare you! No one barges into my home and demand desserts. What sort of plan is that anyway? Let's go to a stranger's house and insult him in song form and refuse to leave until he hands over a fruit dish that no one's prepared since the 16th century. Well, if that's how things are, I have my reasons to push this button. So long, Christmas, you're Feliz Navi-dead to me! (Pushes button) (chuckles) See? Uh, it was Spanish.
(Roof opens and the Naughty-inator shoots into the sky)
Doofenshmirtz: (Chuckles) 'Tis the season to be naughty!
Old Caroler: Can I at least get a diet soda?

(Out in space the satellite reads the naughty and sends it to the North Pole)
Blay'n: What do we have here? Oh! Tsk! Tsk!
Clewn't: Oh Blay'n. Oop! What do you have there?
Blay'n: Oh just a bunch of last minute naughties. It's a shame, huh Clewn't?
Clewn't: Kids! They get worse every year. Ungrateful little... I'll go sit in the dark and mutter to myself.
Burdensome elf: He wasn't always that way. In fact, he used to love kids. In fact, he used to be where the action is. Toy making. In fact, he was the fastest, best toymaker of them all. In fact, they used to call him "Clewn't, the fastest, best toymaker of them all." Though they just called him "Clewn't" for short, which also happens to be his name so the nickname thing was a kind of a moot point. In fact... (The camera zooms out to see Blay'n gone) "Just go up and talk to the first person you see. That's how you make friends." I'm never going to another seminar.
(Scene cuts to Candace walking up to Phineas and Ferb)
Candace: Okay, listen, you twerps. Your ridiculous efforts to thank Santa Claus are getting in the way of my ridiculous efforts to get Jeremy into writing a letter to Santa Claus. So why don't you... Hey, what's with the clouds?
(Sky turns gray making it snow)
Phineas: Whoa! Is it me, or does the sky look really dark and ominous, as if its foreshadowing events which will have a negative impact on our lives.
(A line of mail trucks pull up)
Mailman: I'm sorry kids, looks like everyone in Danville got a return on their letters to Santa. They've all been stamped "naughty".
Phineas: What?
Jeremy: Hey, Candace, look! I did it. I wrote a letter to Santa saying in great detail what gift I want most.
Candace: Cool! Thank you my Little Town of Bethlehem. I'll just hang onto that for you.
Mailman: Oh, I'll take that buddy. Maybe you'll have better luck with Santa than your friends.
Candace: But, but... uhh!
Phineas: Santa thinks everybody in Danville's been naughty.
(Switches over to Buford with Baljeet in a snowman and a carrot in his mouth)
Buford: Now that's just nonsense.
(Switches back to Phineas)
Phineas: But, but how can that be.
Candace: Oh, well, let's see. What's different this year than last year? Oh, I know! You went out and got everyone in Danville involved in one of your off-the-cuff, harebrained schemes.
Phineas: You think this could be my fault?
Candace: Oh, who can say really? But, sometimes, we do naughty things without having any idea they're naughty. Sometimes we do an entire summer's worth of them. (glares at Phineas)
Phineas: Could this be true?
Isabella/Buford/Baljeet: Oh no...I mean how could...well I guess it...
Isabella/Buford: Maybe.
Baljeet: I am cold.
(Phineas stares at the letter)

Act III
(Scene opens up to a sad little boy)
Anchorman: This is Gordon Gutsofanemu reporting from the Googolplex Mall here in downtown Danville. The Christmas all but banished ever since Santa Claus stamped big red "naughty" across this once nice city.
(Scene shifts to Phineas waking up in a bed)
Phineas: (gasp) It was all a bad dream! Christmas wasn't cancelled!
Isabella: Phineas! No matter how many times you try that, it's not going to work.
Phineas: Maybe if I hadn't gotten out of bed today, I wouldn't have done the things Santa thought was naughty.
Isabella: So, what? Are you going to stay here for the rest of your life?
Phineas: Why not?
(Camera zooms out to reveal it was the mall)
Isabella: Well, for one, the mall closes in twenty minutes.
Buford: I don't see what everyone's so worried about. I got this system, see? You act any way you want all year long, but then right before Christmas, you do one big act selfless act of kindness and Santa will wipe your slate clean. Works like a charm.
Baljeet: Really? So I might still have my one big Christmas wish come true?
Buford: Maybe.
Baljeet: Are you not going ask me what my Christmas wish is?
Buford: Nope. It'll only wanna make me hurt you, which will counteract my one act of kindness.
Baljeet: All I want is one sweet, special Christmas kiss under the mistletoe.
Buford: I'm outta here.
Baljeet: Not from you! From a pretty girl! Do not flatter yourself!

(Scene cuts to Naughtyinator in action)
Carolers: ♪ We won't go until we get some ♪
♪ We won't go until we get some ♪
(Perry chatters)
Doofenshmirtz: Ugh! Don't you see what's going on out there? Game over! Your plan failed! There's no figgy pudding! There's no Christmas! You can all just go home!
Carolers: ♪ We won't go until we get some ♪
♪ It's a principle of a thing ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Ugh!
Josh: Come on guys, let's do But, it's Christmas, Becky.
Becky: You got to get over me Josh!

(Scene shifts to Jeremy on the phone)
Jeremy: Okay, bye. I gotta get home. Suzy's pretty upset that about Santa not coming.
Candace: But wait, no! Let's do some last minute window shopping.
Jeremy:  Candace, tell me what's wrong. I can't read your mind.
Candace: Yes you can. That's the problem.
Jeremy: I don't understand. What is it you want from me?
Candace: Oh, right! Like you need me to tell you that. The question is, what do you want from me?
Jeremy: I just want you to tell me what you want.
Candace: Fine! I just want you to tell me what you want.
Jeremy: I don't want anything.
Candace: Nothing? Right, yours is perfect, and I show up with nothing. Do want me to look like a total monster!
Jeremy: Candace, that doesn't even make any sense.
Candace: It's just that I think you're perfect, Jeremy. So I don't understand why you want to make me to feel like I'm not.
Jeremy: Candace, you should know me better than that. Look, I have to go home.
Candace: Oh how did this go so wrong?
(Song: "Where Did We Go Wrong?")
Phineas: ♪ How could we be naughty when I thought we'd been so nice? ♪
Isabella: ♪ Could we have been blinded to some little hidden vice? ♪
Baljeet: ♪ Did our visions of sugarplums not dance like they should? ♪
Phineas: ♪ I'm rackin' my brain here, I really thought we were good. ♪
Phineas, Baljeet and Isabella: ♪ I know you've got that list, and I know you check it twice. ♪
♪ But could you check it again 'cause it seems to me we were all pretty nice. ♪
Phineas: All except for Buford, 'cause he's got that whole "last minute reprieve" theory.
Buford: It's gonna work. You watch.
Phineas, Isabella, Baljeet, Candace and Jeremy: ♪ Where did we go wrong? Please tell me. ♪
♪ Where did we go wrong? ♪
♪ Where did we go, ♪
Phineas and Isabella: ♪ Won't somebody tell me, ♪
All: ♪ Where did we go wrong? ♪
Phineas: No! Y-You know what? I ca-can't except this. I know Danville and Danville is not naughty. We need to send a message to the North Pole to let them know there's been some sort of mistake.
Isabella: But how do we do that?
Baljeet: Yes, they're not evening answer our mail.
(Camera zooms past Baljeet to a radio station)
Phineas: Wait! I've got an idea. Ferb, I know what else we're gonna do today.
(Scene switches to the WJOP worker talking to Phineas)
Man: The North Pole? Well I hate to tell you this Phineas, but WJOP only reaches the greater Danville area. We just don't have a very powerful transmitter.
Phineas: You leave that to us.
(Switches to Ferb angling a giant hanger to the antennae and gives Phineas the thumbs up)
(Song: "Danville for Niceness")
Phineas: ♪ Everybody's saying we're naughty, ♪
♪ It's getting really hard to take. ♪
Isabella: ♪ So we've come to let the whole world know there must have been a mistake. ♪
Baljeet: ♪ So if Santa and his elves can hear us, ♪
♪ We hope we've been clear and concise. ♪
Buford: ♪ In the verses vice versus us. ♪
Baljeet: ♪ Vice versa, us versus vice. ♪
Everyone: ♪ Danville is very nice ♪
♪ Santa, please ♪
♪ Check your list more than twice ♪
♪ Guaranteed! ♪
Blay'n: Danville. What's he talking about?
Clewn't: Let me see that list of last minute naughties.
Blay'n: They're all from the same place.
Clewn't: Hmmm. We've got to get to the bottom of this....
Everyone: (While Clewn't and Blay'n talk)
♪ Danville is very nice ♪
♪ Santa, please ♪
♪ Check your list more than twice ♪

(Scene shifts to the Carolers)
Carolers: ♪ We won't go until we get some ♪
♪ We won't go- ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, uh guys. Don't hate me, but I went into the kitchen to get some almond brittle...love it!...and lo and behold it turns out I did have some figgy pudding. Quite a bit actually. I, I guess this whole thing was pretty easily resolved. I feel kinda sheepish for making a big deal. Anyway here, figgy pudding.
Josh: Come on, guys. Our work here is done.
Doofenshmirtz: Bye bye now. Thank you for the evil motivation for destroying Christmas!

(Scene shift to Phineas wrapping up a wire)
Phineas: Well, that was fun at least.
Isabella: What do you think the chances are that anyone in the North Pole saw that?
Blay'n: Hello! Hello! Hello!
Phineas: I'd say pretty good.
Clewn't: So, what's all this business about Danville, then?

(Scene shifts to Perry trying to escape and he drops the CD)
Doofenshmirtz: (gasps) What's this? A Sal Tuscany Christmas... Score! What a perfect way to enjoy the last several hours before Christmas officially doesn't come.
Sal Tuscany: ♪ We wish you a Merry Christmas ♪
♪ We wish you a Merry Christmas ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Alright! You know, this one's really grown on me.
Sal Tuscany: ♪ And a happ-♪

(Scene shifts to Phineas and the gang with Blay'n and Clewn't)
Phineas: So that's what happened. Do you think it could be a mistake?
Clewn't: A whole city deemed naughty at once.
Blay'n: I've never seen anything like it.
(Candace walks up and notices the elves)
Candace: Huh?
Phineas: Oh hey Candace. These are two of Santa's elves.
Candace: You gotta be kidding me.
Phineas: Blay'n, Clewn't, this is my sister.
Clewn't: Ah yes, Candace Flynn.
Candace: You know who I am?
Clewn't: No, that's not a good thing.
Isabella: They're here trying to figure out why Danville was branded naughty.
Candace: Well, maybe everyone did something naughty.
Clewn't: No, it doesn't work that way. You see, everyone does naughty things from time to time but that's different from being a naughty person.
Blay'n: You see, Santa's very forgiving.
Clewn't: Oh, jolly to a fault, if you ask me.
Blay'n: Well, something is definitely screwy around here. According to these readings as if the city itself is misbehaving.

(Scene shifts back to DEI with view of the Naughty-inator)
Voice: Uh-oh, uh-oh, uh-oh, uh-oh, uh-oh. (A little monitor comes out)
Major Monogram: Uh-oh, Agent P. It turns out Carl was lying about getting you that Sal Tuscany CD.
Carl: I never said I got it for him.
Major Monogram: Quiet, Carl! Haven't you caused enough harm? (to Perry) Your "so-called" Secret Santa must've somehow infiltrated the agency and uh, until we get to the bottom of it, whatever you do, do not play that CD.
Doofenshmirtz: Boy, this Sal Tuscany guy is good. Let me crank it up some more.
(Turns up the volume)
Sal Tuscany: ♪ That's what Christmas is for! ♪
(The partridge helps Perry out of his trap)
Sal Tuscany: ♪ Christmas cannot be destroyed! ♪
♪ Not even by a Naughty-inator! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: What the? How did he...?
(Sal Tuscany sings loud enough to destroy the Naughty-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, so we'll have Christmas. I simply don't care. Curse my intensely burning apathy towards Chri-
(Perry punches Doofenshmirtz)

(Scene shifts to Baljeet)
Baljeet: Oh, it is hopeless. I am never going to get my special mistletoe Christmas kiss. (Gets a wedgie from Buford) Ah!
Buford: And I'm never going to get my one great act of kindness.
Baljeet: Those were long johns.
Phineas: What about you, Isabella? Isn't there some big Christmas wish that your afraid won't come true?
Isabella: Oh, um, we don't celebrate Christmas. But I got the coolest stuff for Hanukkah. Eight straight days of dreams come true. I mean... I'm with you guys. Boo, no Christmas.
Phineas: Come on, guys. Do you really seem like bad kids?
Clewn't: No, no, you're all good kids.
Phineas: Yes, I knew your heart will lead you to the truth.
Clewn't: No, actually the meter suddenly gave you a "nice" reading.
Blay'n: Yeah! "Nice"! "Nice"! Everywhere! Everyone "nice". (meter reads Buford) Except for him. Sorry.
Phineas: Well, that's great. All you have to do is tell Santa and Christmas is back on, right?
Blay'n: Uh, mmm. It's not that simple. You see, Santa's already left. The elves loaded the sleigh and map out his route; it's too late now. Santa's not coming to Danville.
(Everyone is shocked)

Act IV
(Scene opens up to Blay'n)
Blay'n: It's too late now. Santa's not coming to Danville.
Phineas: Well, that doesn't seem fair.
Clewn't: What are you gonna do about?
Phineas: Me?
Blay'n: Him?
Clewn't: Yeah, him. You saw his file.
Phineas: (thinks for a moment) Ferb, I know a third thing we're gonna do today. We're gonna save Christmas. Who's in?
Buford: Me.
Baljeet: I'm in.
(Ferb gives a thumbs up)
Isabella: Me too.
Candace: I guess I'm in too.
Everyone but Candace: Yay!
Clewn't: Blay'n, dust off my toy-making gloves. I've found a reason to believe again.
(Scene switches to the gang preparing the sleigh)
Phineas: Friends, I'm not going to lie to you: this is going to be difficult, but failure's not an option. Candace will keep track of who gets what presents. Blay'n and Clewn't will make the presents. Isabella and Buford wrap. And Baljeet feeds the presents in the Christmas cannon manned by Ferb. Any questions?
Buford: Yeah, are you sure that's not a clubhouse?
Phineas: Yes, I'm sure. Hang on, everybody, here we go!
(They take off)
Phineas: The cloud layer is too thick. I can't see. What happened to all the lights?
Isabella: Everyone was so bummed out, I guess they never turned them on.
Buford: I'll take care of it. Just get me in low.
(Phineas lowers the sleigh)
Phineas: Good luck, Buford!
Buford: All right, Buford, here's your chance.
(Switches back to the sleigh)
Clewn't: All right, who's first on the list?
Candace: It's Buford, but it says he's naughty.
(Switches to two men shoveling)
Man 1: Plow!
(Switches to a plow with Buford on it and ringing a bell)
Buford: Christmas is coming! Christmas is coming! Christmas is coming! Turn the lights on!
Boy: Did you hear that? Christmas is coming!
Woman: Hey, let's get those lights on.
Man 2: Yeah, let's turn on the lights!
Man 3: What are we waiting for?
(The lights turn on and the clouds blow away)
Isabella: Wow!
Baljeet: Buford did it!
Candace: But it still says he's naughty.
Clewn't: Oh, what the heck. It's Christmas.
(Clewn't changes Buford's naughty to nice)
Blay'n: So, what does he want?
Candace: To be thought of as nice by his friends.
Candace/Baljeet/Isabella: Aww.
Baljeet: Merry Christmas, old buddy!
(Switches to Buford saluting Baljeet)
(Switches back to Isabella and Phineas)
Isabella: It's beautiful.
(The gang flies over the lights that spell "Thank You Santa")
Phineas: I wish Santa could've seen it. Oh, well. Come on, guys, let's make up some lost time.
(Song: "Christmas is Starting Now")
Big Bad Voodoo Daddy: ♪ Grab some holly and mistletoe ♪
♪ 'Cause we're gonna go out tonight ♪
♪ We're gonna bask in the electric glow ♪
♪ Of a million little colored lights ♪
♪ We've got a lot to do, before the dawn ♪
♪ So with a minimum of introspection ♪
♪ I think you better put your mittens on ♪
♪ Shake your jingle bell in my direction ♪
♪ Sometimes I feel like a big snowman ♪
♪ That's fallen under a plow ♪
♪ But tonight I'm on top of the world ♪
♪ We're gonna bring it around somehow ♪
♪ Christmas is startin' now! ♪
♪ Oh yeah, Christmas is startin' now ♪
♪ That's right, Christmas is startin' now ♪
♪ Oh yeah ♪
♪ Christmas is startin' now ♪
♪ Right now! Yeah! ♪
Phineas: Good going, guys. We only have a few more blocks to go.
Isabella: We gotta hurry if we're gonna make it by Christmas Day.
Candace: Okay, next up: Jeremy Johnson? I don't believe it!
Clewn't: What does he want?
Candace: We can skip this one. I already got him what he really wanted. Yes!
Phineas: We're coming up on the last house. Fire away!
Baljeet: Oh, no, it is stuck.
Candace: It's Wendy Stinglehopper's present. She asked for a really big hat.
Isabella: Isn't that that pretty girl from the math team?
Baljeet: I know what I must do.
(Baljeet starts to climb the conveyor belt)
Isabella: Be careful, Baljeet!
Baljeet: Uh! Almost got it. Ah!
(Baljeet gets shot out of the cannon)
Phineas: Baljeet!
Baljeet: Goodbye, my friends! Ah!
(Baljeet starts to fall but floats down to Wendy's chimney)
Baljeet: Hey, that was fun.
Wendy: Baljeet?
Baljeet: Oh, uh, hi Wendy. Did anyone order a really big hat?
Wendy: Eee! My hat! Oh how can I ever thank you?
(The camera pans up to mistletoe)
Wendy: Hey, look, mistletoe.
(Baljeet blushes and Wendy gives him a smooch on the cheek, then he gives her a romantic kiss)
Baljeet: Later.

(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz tied up)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay yeah, yeah, I get it. A taste of my own medicine right?
(Perry places the partridge on Doofenshmirtz's nose)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh of course, and the bird. It doesn't even work! ♪ A partridge on an evil scientist! ♪ There's no play on words. That's not clever. You're not clever!
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, I hate Christmas. Yes! I hate Christmas! Woohoo! This is the best Christmas ever!

(Scene shifts to Phineas lowering the sleigh in the backyard)
Isabella: Woohoo!
Phineas: Yeah!
Isabella: Great job!
Phineas: Nice shootin', Ferb.
(Phineas shakes Ferb's hand)
Candace: Well done. If you'll excuse me, I gotta see Jeremy.
Phineas: Great work guys.
Baljeet: Not to alarm you, but your house is on fire.
(Camera cuts to the rest stop with smoke coming out of it)
Phineas: That's not fire, it's steam! Come on!
(The gang go up to the rest stop to see Santa's reindeer; Phineas and Isabella gasp)
Phineas: I don't believe it! Santa!
Blay'n: Uh, sir, what are you doing here?
Santa: Having a shvitz. Steam is just what the doctor ordered.
Phineas: We thought you weren't coming to Danville.
Santa: And pass up on enjoying this cool rest stop you made me? Ho! Ho! Ho! Unthinkable! And thanks for doing the Danville run for me.
Phineas: You knew?
Santa: Of course I knew! I'm Santa Claus!
(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh what a mess. Curse you, Sal Tuscany! (smashes the CD) Well, I probably should call Uncle Justin and thank him for the gift anyway. Hello, operator? I would like to place a call to... Barneo? I thought it said Borneo. Wait, where's Barneo? The North Pole! Wait a second! The letters of "A Sal Tuscany Christmas" spell "Santa Claus" with an embarrassing leftover "Y". Let me see that picture. Sal Tuscany is Santa Claus?

(Scene shifts to Candace about to leave for Jeremy's)
Candace: Ah! Jeremy! I was just coming to see you.
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. I don't know what that was all about before, but I wanted to give you your present.
Candace: (gasps) The earrings I wanted. Jeremy, how did you know?
Jeremy: I remember you loved them in that magazine. And you were even gonna have your good necklace made into a pair like them.
Candace: That's so sweet. How did you afford these?
Jeremy: I sold my electric.
Candace: Oh, Jeremy. You were gonna trade that in to get that cool, new silver one.
Jeremy: You knew that?
Candace: I guess I know you as well as you know me, my bowl full of jelly. Here's your gift.
Jeremy: The silver guitar! But how?
Candace: I sold my good necklace.
Candace/Jeremy: It's perfect.
Jeremy: Merry Christmas.
Candace: Merry Christmas.
(Jeremy and Candace hug)
(Scene shifts back on the roof)
Baljeet: Funny how things worked out so that everyone pretty much got what they wanted.
Isabella: What did you wish for, Phineas?
Santa: May I do the honors? I like this one.
Phineas: Okay.
Santa: "Dear Santa, you are one of my biggest heroes. All I want for Christmas this year is a chance to be like you. Thank you, Phineas Flynn." Ho! Ho! Ho! Merry Christmas, Phineas. And by the way, good job.
Blay'n: Yeah!
Isabella: Yeah, that was fun.
Baljeet: Good job.
(Scene switches to Santa tying up the rest stop)
Santa: Well, kids, it's time for me to head home. So you're sure you don't need this?
Phineas: No, we made it for you.
Santa: Great! I'll take it to the North Pole, and use it as a clubhouse.
Buford: I knew it was a club house.
Blay'n: Goodbye!
Baljeet: Goodbye Blay'n, Clewn't. Merry Christmas!
Isabella: See you guys. Thanks Blay'n. Thanks Clewn't.
Buford: Merry Christmas to ya.
Clewn't: So long. And... thanks.
Phineas: Wait, Santa! It's true isn't it? You planned everything so everyone's Christmas wish would come true.
Santa: Well, Santa's gotta have a little fun. (starts to fly off) Ho! Ho! Ho! Merry Christmas!
Phineas: Oh wait! Ferb, what did you wish for?
Ferb: Take a look at this morning's paper.
Phineas: "World peace"?
Ferb: No, no, this one down here.
Phineas: "Local boy gets harmonica"! Hey, great picture!
(Scene switches to the Flynn-Fletcher siblings going to greet their parents and grandparents)
Candace: Hey, Mom and Dad are back.
Reginald: Hey kiddies! Merry Christmas.
Phineas: Grandma! Grandpa! You made it!
Candace: Merry Christmas.
Winifred: I made figgy pudding.
(And the family walks into the house)

End Credits
(Song: "Thank You Santa")
Mitchel Musso: ♪ Christmas morning, ♪
♪ So much fun! ♪
♪ Down the stairs the children run ♪
♪ Someone has eaten the cookies, ♪
♪ And look what's left under the tree ♪
♪ There's presents for you and for me ♪
♪ As far as the eye can see ♪
♪ What's on the rooftop? I wondered what that was ♪
♪ It's reindeer flying ♪
♪ Around the world ♪
♪ Because Santa's coming ♪
♪ I think we all should pause to say that we're grateful ♪
♪ For everything he does! ♪
♪ Thank you Santa Claus ♪
♪ Thank you Santa Claus ♪
♪ Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoaaa ♪
♪ A song for all the things you do, ♪
♪ Santa Claus we're thankin' you ♪
♪ A song for all the things you do, ♪
♪ Santa Claus we're thankin' you ♪
♪ A song for all the things you do, (Joy to the world!) ♪
♪ Santa Claus we're thankin' you (Reindeer flyin') ♪
♪ A song for all the things you do, (Joy to the world) ♪
♪ Santa Claus we're thankin' you (Reindeer flyin') ♪
♪ Thank you Santa Claus ♪
(Perry is seen building a snowman again)
Snowman: Hello! Wintertime's fun! Follow me! (Motions to Perry and starts to walk towards the road) Plow! (The camera focused on Perry covering his eyes and carrot rolls over to Perry but it was revealed to be a vegetable stand) You know, on second thought, don't follow me! Man, that was close. (Walt Disney logo comes on) (Disney Channel origanl logo comes on too)



(Scene opens at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Phineas: So, what's the plan today, Dad?
Lawrence: Well, your mother's jazz trio has a gig at the Mayor's Day festivities, and I shall be running the antiques auction, oh yes! I'm very excited because we have a collection of steamrollers on the block, all imported from England.
Candace: You're kidding. There's a market for that?
Lawrence: Oh, you'd be surprised, what with Steamroller Today magazine and Wacky Steamroller videos posted on the Internet. The public is going crazy for the flattening arts.
Candace: Pfff. People and their silly trends. (to Linda) Hey, Mom, can I get a pink streak in my hair?
Linda: Why would you do that?
Candace: To express my individuality! Everyone's doing it!
Linda: No! (to Lawrence) Alright, well, I'm all set. I've got my lucky guitar strings, wearing my lucky underwear, and, of course, I've got...
(She digs a golden guitar pick out of her pocket, but it goes flying through the air and slides into the crack between floor and wall)
Linda: Oh, no! My lucky gold guitar pick! (Gets down on all fours to peer into the crack) It's wedged in the wall.
Lawrence: Oh, here. Try my lucky butter knife.
(He hands the knife to Linda and she pokes it into the crack, but it's too short)
Linda: Oh, it's too far in. (Stands) You gave me that for our anniversary.
Lawrence: Oh, don't worry, love. I'll get a contractor in here to retrieve it.
Linda: I hate the idea of someone cutting a hole in my nice wall. Well, I can't worry about it right now. I've got music to make!
Lawrence: Whoa, yes, we'd better go. See you kids at the festival later, okay?
Linda: Bye!
Phineas/Candace: Good luck!
Phineas:  I know what we're gonna do today, Ferb! Hey! Where's Perry?

(Perry sneaks into the kitchen and spits into a spitoon vase.)
Computer: Computer authorizing DNA, one moment please. Access granted.
(Agent P arrives in the lair)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P. How do you like the new spitoon lair entrance? (Beat) Anyway, your mission. Mayor Roger Doofenshmirtz is being honored today with a statue at the Mayor's Day Festival. (Background of screen becomes a weather map with Heinz's and Roger's faces on it.) Considering Doofenshmirtz's hatred for his brother, the forecast suggests mild tomfoolery with a sixty percent chance of slapstick violence. Good luck, Agent P. Now on to Tom Perkins with sports.

(In the garage. Ferb is holding a silver ball. Isabella, Baljeet, and Buford enter)
Phineas: We're done, Ferb.
Isabella: Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: We just built a device that temporarily scrambles your molecules so you can pass through solid objects. Let's see if it works.
(Song: Just Passing Through)
Bobbi Fabulous: Now listen up...
♪ When there's an obstacle in my way, ♪
♪ I don't let it ruin my day ♪
♪ And I don't walk around it ♪
♪ Like other people do. ♪
♪ You can scramble my molecules ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm just passin' through! ♪
♪ If there's an immovable object in front of you, ♪
♪ Takin' up the entire street, ♪
♪ Don't skirt around the edge, ♪
♪ Don't go over it or under it. ♪
♪ Never admit defeat! ♪
♪ Let's say you're in a big brick room ♪
♪ With no windows or doors, ♪
♪ A cast-iron ceiling and a concrete floor. ♪
♪ I got a quantum-physical solution just for you! ♪
♪You just scramble them molecules ♪
♪You're just a-passing through! ♪
♪ So just scramble them molecules ♪
♪ You're just passing through. ♪
Phineas: Hey we almost forgot, we have to get that pick for Mom! I'll be right back. (phases through wall)
(Candace's walking into the room talking on her phone. She picks up an apple from the counter.)
Candace: So I asked Jeremy if he was going to the festival and he's like "Yeah, are you going to the festival?" and then I go...(She notices Ferb, Isabella, Baljeet, and Buford staring at the blank wall that Phineas passed through)
Candace: Hey...
Ferb, Isabella, Baljeet, Buford: (without looking around) Hey.
(Camera switches between Candace and the group a couple times in silence. Phineas finally phases back through the wall)
Phineas: Got it.
Candace: (drops the apple in her hand in shock) ...Call you back Stacy.
Phineas: (puts ball on the table) Hey Candace, we're heading out to the festival. See ya!
Candace: (takes out phone and dials) Mom?
Linda: (on stage at the festival) Hello? Candace?
Candace: Mom, I know this sounds crazy. I mean, no crazier than all my other calls. You've got a gig, you're upset about losing your lucky pick. Like, you're going to come home now and see what I'm rambling on about. No, you know, I should bring the ball to you! Yeah that's a good idea. Mom, forget this call ever happened. Bye! (hangs up)
Linda: (deafened by the music) What?

♪ Doofenshmirtz flatbed microbus! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (talking to a Perry bobblehead) You see bobblehead Perry the Platypus, I have created a powerful -inator that will deface anything it contacts! Including my brother Roger's statue that's being unveiled at today's festival. It's going to humiliate him! Isn't that genius, bobblehead Perry the Platypus? (flicks the bobblehead)
♪ Bobblehead Perry the Platypus! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (seeing the bobblehead bounce) Oh yes, so you agree. You know, I miss our little talks, don't you? Oh, what do you know anyway? (throws bobblehead out the back window)

(Scene change to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: (picks up the phasing ball) Walk through walls eh?
(Candace walks into the wall without activating the ball. She falls back onto the floor.)
Candace: Okay, now I'm mad. (activates the ball and walks through the wall) You've outdone yourselves boys. Wait 'til Mom sees this.

(Scene change to the town hall)
Roger Doofenshmirtz: Citizens of Danville, it is an honor to be your mayor and a pleasure to serve.
Doofenshmirtz: (getting out of the microbus) Oh, no, Roger, it is I who will be serving you.
(Doofenshmirtz closes the door, which swings open. He slams the door a second time, but it swings open again.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hm... okay, push up and...
(The door closes and locks. Doofenshmirtz glances through the window and notices the keys in the ignition.)
Doofenshmirtz: Those are my keys, aren't they? (On the phone) No, I don't have my card. Yes, the keys are still in there and it's running. (Engine shudders to a stop.) Okay, now it's not running; now I need gas... Forty-five minutes huh?... (Sighs) Well I'm not going anywhere. (Puts phone away) Eh, well at least I can get my -inator. (Aims the -inator.)
Roger Doofenshmirtz: As we get closer to unveiling this perfect replica of my body...
(Perry appears in the -inator's sights)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Plat...! (gets punched by Perry) Hey!
(Perry notices the discarded bobblehead replica of himself)
Doofenshmirtz: What? That's a... it's an arts and crafts project! I've got a life outside of you!
(Perry and Doofenshmirtz fight. Doofenshmirtz slips on the bobblehead Perry and kicks it onto the self-destruct button. -Inator explodes.)
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you Perry the bobblehead!

(Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Baljeet, Buford biking to the festival. Isabella slows down.)
Isabella: Oh no! Bummer, I have a flat!
Phineas: No problem, we can fix it.
(Scene change to the steamroller auction)
Lawrence: And now, ladies and gentlemen, what you've all been waiting to bid on. I give you, the antique steamrollers! (crowd cheers)
Crowd member: They're so beautiful! (cries)
Wilbur Wilkins: Steamrollers stink!
Orville Wilkins: Yeah, pump trolleys rule!
Old lady: (gasps) It's the Wilkins brothers!
Old man: Just ignore them Arlene. They try to cause trouble at every steam-powered antique auction in the Tri-State Area.
Lawrence: Shall we start the bidding?
(Candace bikes towards the festival with the phasing ball. She passes Phineas and Ferb fixing Isabella's flat tire.)
Phineas: Hey Candace!
Candace: Enjoy your last moments of freedom, boys!

(Scene change to Doofenshmirtz's flatbed microbus)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, you might have destroyed Plan A, but behold! (Another -inator rises from the bus) Plan B! (Pushes a button and the -inator explodes) Which I have just destroyed, so now we're even. But not even I am prepared for Plan C! (Third -inator rises from the flatbed) Behold! The Be-Gone-Inator! How do you like me now Perry the Gone-a-pus?
(Perry dodges and the Be-Gone-Inator disintegrates a tree.)
Doofenshmirtz: Eh, so I missed. Oh whatever, I have a bigger bother to be-gone. Goodbye, stupid Roger statue!
(Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz out of the seat and moves the Be-Gone-Inator; the beam hits a House of Mirrors and bounces around the mirrors.)

Lawrence: And Lot Number 2 is a little beaut from Aveling & Porter built in 1924. Do I have any bids?
Crowd: I do! I do! I do! Here!
Orville Wilkins: Nobody's paying a lick of attention to us Wilbur.
Wilbur Wilkins: Yeah! Let's get out of here.
(The pump-trolley grazes against a steamroller and the steamroller starts rolling backward off the hill towards where Ferb is pumping Isabella's bike's tire)
Baljeet: (Impatiently) So how long does it take you to fix a flat? Tick tock!
Candace: (Running through the festival) Excuse me. Pardon me. Coming through!
(Candace trips on a rock, falls into a porta potty door, and is stuck with her head and one hand through the door. The phase ball flies out of her hand. Cut back to the bottom of the hill with Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Buford, and a visibly impatient Baljeet as the steamroller approaches them. The group is oblivious to the machine as they remain fixated on Ferb re-inflating Isabella's tire.)
Baljeet: Aghh! You can build a rollercoaster in a day, but it takes you 12 minutes to pump up a tire?
(Phase ball bumps into the group and the incoming steamroller phases through them.)
Baljeet: Did anybody else just see the inside of a steamroller?
Buford: How do you know what the inside of a steamroller looks like?
Baljeet: I have a life outside of you!
Phineas: Well, the tire's fixed.
(The group bikes away. The steamroller rolls back up the hill to its original Lot position, crushing the phase ball in the process)
Lawrence: And Lot Number 5 is sold to the woman in red. And now the last item of the day: we have Lot 6. Do I have any bids?
Candace: (struggling to get the door off of the porta potty stall, while Balthazar gives her a high five) Mom!
(Candace runs off with the door still stuck around her neck)
Candace: Mom!

(Doofenshmirtz tackles Perry out of the Be-Gone-Inator's seat. The Be-Gone-Inator beam bounces off the rearview mirror of the flatbed and disintegrates itself.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hmm... what are the odds?

Phineas: Hey mom! I'm glad we caught you. Ferb and I found your lucky gold pick.
Linda: Oh boys! Thank you! What a relief; I just hate playing without it.
Candace: Mom! Mom! Look at this! Look at me!
Mrs. Garcia-Shapiro: Linda! We're on!
Candace: Mom!
Linda: Candace, I've gotta go. And just because I won't let you get pink hair, you don't have to wear some weird door. The trends these days...
Candace: But, but!
Phineas: (walking away) Cool door Candace. (to the others) Let's get a good spot.
Buford: I'd wear a door. Heck, I'd even wear a window if it'd fit.
Jeremy: (walking past the group) Hey guys.
Candace: Oh no! Jeremy!
Jeremy: You seen Candace?
Phineas: She's standing in the door.
Jeremy: Thanks.
Candace: Oh no! Oh no! Jeremy can't see me like this. Oh my g..! Oh no! (winds the door's toilet paper around her head)
(The beam from the first -inator bounces out of the House of Mirrors and disintegrates the door off of Candace)
Jeremy: Candace?
Candace: ...and four. And breathe. Whew, just doing some stretching. Oh hi Jeremy!
Jeremy: So, our moms are going to start playing when they unveil the statue. Wanna go?
Candace: (dreamily) Sure.
Roger Doofenshmirtz: And now, without further ado! (Statue is unveiled; crowd cheers; band starts playing.)
Phineas: Well Ferb, it looks like everything worked out for everyone today.

Doofenshmirtz: (standing with Perry on his flatbed, balanced on the edge of the cliff) I can't believe nothing worked out for me today. After... I.. I had a A, B, and C and they all... 'course I destroyed the B so...
(Perry jumps off. The flatbed tilts and rolls down the cliff with Doofenshmirtz on it.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey where are you going? Curse you Perry the Platypus! (Rolls past the Wilkins brothers)
Wilbur Wilkins: Hey look at that! A pump-less pump trolley!
Orville Wilkins: Now that's old school.



(Scene opens up at the Flynn-Fletcher household. The Flynn-Fletchers sit on a couch with Bob and Tiana.)
Phineas: Wow, Aunt Tiana, you and Bob have had so many cool adventures.
Tiana: I know huh? And here's a picture of Bob and me jumping out of a helicopter into the South American rainforest. Turn the page, Bob.
Bob: Okay!
Tiana: Oh, here's where we dodged all those man eating plants in the Amazon. Bob?
Bob: Okay!
Tiana: And here we are climbing the icy peaks of Kilimanjaro. I thought the view was just spectacular, but Bob was just--
Bob: Eh, okay.
Phineas: Where ya going next?
Tiana: To the Galapagos. We leave tomorrow.
Bob: You know, we’ve been on so many trips together, this time, I want to go with someone else...
(Everyone gasps)
Bob: ...My wife. Tiana, will you marry me?
Tiana: Okay!
Linda: How romantic.
Lawrence: Way to go Bob.
Phineas: Wow, corny. But apparently effective.
Linda: You could get married in the Galapagos!
Candace: No! You can't get married in the Galapagos. When I was little, you promised me that I would be your bridesmaid. What about my needs?
Linda: Candace!
Tiana: Oh, that's right. I did promise you that, didn't I? Well, we could go to the courthouse before we leave.
Bob: Okay!
Candace: No, not okay! We have to have a real wedding. We can have it in the backyard!
Linda: Candace, you can't plan a real wedding in a day.
Candace: Duh! (Rushes off and comes back wearing a dress) I've been planning this since I was 10! I could set up the perfect wedding and get you two kids married in a way you'll never forget, and have you on the plane to the Galapagos with time to spare. Now you and mom go to the salon to get up-dos, and French manicures. Then head to Tri-State Bridal and ask for Oga. Now go!
Linda: Okay then, wouldn't want Aunt Tiana taking her vows in safari wear!
Tiana: Candace, I know you're going to plan a wonderful wedding, especially with Phineas and Ferb helping.
Candace: What?!
Phineas: Right! Ferb, I know what we're going to do--
Candace: No, no no no. You don't know what you’re going to do today. They're going to build some sort of wedding rocket to the moon, or lawn gnome beach party of taffeta!
Tiana: Then you steer the boys in the right direction, and have fun, okay?
Bob: (Off screen, distant) Okay!
Phineas: (At Ferb) Lawn gnome beach party of taffeta. Make a note of that.
(Scene switches to Candace sitting in the kitchen)
Candace: (At phone) Hello? Lake's Cakes? I'd like a 7-tiered.... Oh no, make that 10-tiered white cake with raspberry filled... (Beep) Please hold. (Click) Yes, Flowers? Oh, yes, I need something with smell... (Beep) Oh um, please hold. (Click) I'm back. I want something with cinnamon...
(Phineas and Ferb walk over to Candace)
Phineas: Hey, sis.
Candace: Excuse me. (At Phineas and Ferb) Can't you see I'm busy? (At phone) Yes, I'm still here. Hold please! (At Phineas and Ferb) Will you two scram?
Phineas: Well, Ferb and I wanted to see how we could help.
Candace: Just go do something and get out of my way! (At phone) Huh? Oh no, not you. It's my... (At Phineas and Ferb) Go plan the grand entrance!
Phineas: Okay! (At Ferb) I guess we could make an entrance that's kinda grand. (Pause) So, have you seen Perry?

(Scene switches to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: ♪ I wanna wanna wanna have fun fun fun ♪
(Major Monogram's screen lifts to reveal Perry sliding down a chute to his chair) Agent P, thank goodness you're here. As you've probably heard by now, Danville's experiencing a shortage of decent, healthy food and someone's been buying up all supplies of unhealthy food additives. This has Doofenshmirtz written all over it. (Image pops up on screen with Doofenshmirtz's picture and signatures by the man himself) We have no idea why he signed it that many times, but anyways, we're all counting on you Agent P!

(Scene switches back to Candace in the kitchen)
Candace: (At phone) No; I said crab puffs! (Beep) Please hold. (Click) Why would I want my cake in a vase? Oh, you're the florist, not the baker.
Phineas: (Off screen) Alright ladies, let's do a run through!
(Candace breathes out smoke through her nose)
(Scene switches to Phineas and Ferb, staring up at the sky)
Phineas: (Through helicopter noise) Looking good Isabella! (Candace comes to the backyard) Oh, hey, sis!
Isabella: (Parachuting down from the helicopter) Hey, Candace!
Phineas: See Aunt Tiana, Bob, and the wedding photographer will parachute into their wedding, just like they did in South America. At the helicopters) Let's bring those puppies back down. We want to save our fuel for the actual grand entrance!
Candace: Absolutely not! You are off grand entrance duty. Just go take care of the flowers, while I order the cake. Got it?
Phineas: Well, I guess we could--
Candace: Just do it! And don’t interrupt me. (Walks away)
Phineas: Wow, she's good. I'm going to have her plan my wedding. Ferb, make a note.
Isabella: (Off screen) I got it!

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
(Perry walks into an elevator, which is playing "Gitchee Gitchee Goo". The elevator door opens)
Doofenshmirtz: Surprise, Perry the Platypus! (Giggles madly) Okay, (Presses elevator button) enjoy your trip! (Giggles again) Oh, oh, the look on his face was priceless, (Giggles) Oh, here he comes back. Alright, try not to laugh, okay. Ahaha, did you enjoy the other floor—Wait, Perry? (Second elevator door opens revealing Perry) Perry the Platypus? (Goes inside the elevator) Huh, where did he go?
(Perry reaches an arm into the elevator Doofenshmirtz is in and pushes all the floor buttons)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, (Groans) No!
(Perry walks into Doofenshmirtz's apartment)

(Scene switches to Candace)
Candace: No, no, not beef, chicken! Oh, you're the cake guy? (Beep) Oh, hold please. (Click) What? No I don't want to save money on my car insurance.
Phineas: Candace!
Candace: I told you not to interrupt me. (At phone) Not you, don't hang up. (At Phineas and Ferb) This better be good!
Phineas: Ferb and I just thought you'd like to see how the flowers turned out.
Candace: Oh! Why didn’t you say so? (Walks into the backyard) Oh wow, this is so beautiful—Wait a minute, are these--?
Phineas: Venus flytraps! Just like in their adventure in the Amazon.
(Nearby flytrap makes a growling noise; Candace gasps)
Phineas: Don’t worry Candace, they only have a taste for insects and small vermin. (Flytrap latches onto Candace’s head) Hey, he likes you!
Candace: Get this thing off me!
Phineas: (Removing the Venus flytrap off Candace) Are you okay?
Candace: One moment. (Dials on her phone)
(Scene switches to Linda and Tiana. Linda’s phone begins to ring)
Linda: Hello? (Candace screams through the phone; Linda hangs up) So, are you and Bob thinking of having kids?
(Scene switches back to Phineas, Ferb and Candace)
Phineas: So, what can we do next?
Candace: Next? What can you do next?!
Phineas: Well, Aunt Tiana said that we should help, and it is her wedding when you think about it.
Candace: Alright. But! No trampolines, no robots, no rollercoasters, no firework spectaculars, no native dancers, no running of the wildebeests--

(Scene switches to DEI. Doofenshmirtz stands grumpily in the elevator as it continues going through every floor)
Doofenshmirtz: (Walking into his apartment) You could have at least gotten into your trap. It's on the table. (Perry ties himself up) You know, I do appreciate you trying to mix it up, but I do have a schedule to keep. Ready? Let me show you my latest project. The Junk Food-inator! It sprays my special mix of boiling hot high-fructose corn syrup and hydrogenated coconut oil. To turn all healthy food into toasty warm junk food! Soon, everyone will become lethargic overweight blobs. Easily controlled by me! (Laughs) Because I will be the only one left eating healthy food, like these delicious broccolis! (Eats) Mm, well, the only problem is, I'm not quite used to the taste—- I'm used to eating the junk. I'll just dip it in here (Dips broccoli into the Junk Food-inator and eats it) Mmm, Oh that's much better! I could eat this all day. I can feel myself getting healthier.

(Scene switches back to Candace)
Candace: --No giant robot groomsmen, no mechanized rice catapults, no rocket to the moon, no bringing the moon down to earth, just regular good old fashion wedding stuff like you might find at a regular everyday perfect wedding.
Phineas: Like?
Candace: Like—- Ice! It's summer, it's hot, people want something with ice, okay? Make ice.
(Venus flytrap growls and snaps at her, and Candace runs away screaming)
Phineas: Ferb, what do we have in the ice file?

(Scene switches back to DEI. Doofenshmirtz's stomach has enlarged and he is pale with acne on his face)
Doofenshmirtz: I could eat this stuff all day. Just look at this lifelike glow I've acquired. I'm the picture of health! And all from eating nothing but this... ah, I don't know what's under here, but I think it's a vegetable. I'm as strong as an ox! (Squelching noise as his stomach pops out from his shirt. Doofenshmirtz breathes out heavily as he gets tired) But nobody else will be after fire off my Junk Food-inator. (Machine rumbles, but stops, having run out of corn syrup and coconut oil) I should really refill this. But you know (Yawns) I'm so tired. I should really take a nap first. (Falls over into Junk Food-inator and starts snoring)

(Scene switches back to Candace)
Delivery Man: Yeah, the cakes all set up out back just like you asked.
Candace: Thank you!
Delivery Man: Hey, aren't you a little too young to be a wedding planner—Oof!
Candace: No! (Slams door) No, I'm not! (Rushes out back) My perfect cake done! (She unveils the cake to have the strangest assortment of tiers, ranging from fish bones to a chicken cage at the bottom) No! My perfect cake! Mr. Delivery guy, come back! (Candace runs past a window only to come back to see her disheveled appearance) The horror.
Phineas: Hey Candace! What do you think of our ice sculpture? We incorporated all of Aunt Tiana's and Bob's adventures. There's even a slide she can ride down to the altar.
Isabella and Ginger: (Sliding down) I do!
Candace: (Sobbing) I'm telling-- (Car honks) Mom! Maybe it's my perfect day after all! Mom! Aunt Tiana, hurry up, you've got to see this thing.
Tiana: Is she always like that?
Linda: Some days are better than others!
Candace: (Hopping up and down) It's Phineas and Ferb! They've ruined everything!
Linda: I'll go check on Lawrence and Bob.
Tiana: Candace, let's go have a look.
Candace: (Rushing to the backyard) Look at this cake, it has a chicken in it! (Chicken noise)
Tiana: Oh...
Candace: And my hair! I think it may also have a chicken in it!
Tiana: Oh my...
Candace: And this! (Gestures to the enormous ice sculpture)
Phineas: Hi, Auntie T! We're just putting the finishing touches on the scorpions. Look! The venom is sparkling apple cider!
Tiana: Oh my goodness. Candace, I- I...
Candace: Don't say it, Auntie T, I failed you! I turned your special day into the worst wedding ever!
Tiana: (In tears) But I love it.
Candace: You huh?
Tiana: I mean your hair, it's all the rage down in Montevideo. And the cake! It's like a crazy hodgepodge of everything I love. And this! Wow, all I can say is, (Hugging Candace) thank you. You planned a perfect wedding. Now why don't you come inside and help me with my dress?
Candace: Oh yay!

(Scene switches back to DEI, Doofenshmirtz is snoring)
Doofenshmirtz: (Waking up to Perry’s chatter) Wait, what, who am I? Oh, oh, it’s me! Perry the Platypus, how did you free yourself?
(Perry ties himself up with the rope, before inhaling deeply and exhaling, showing large chest muscles, before sighing)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow. But it's too late! While I was napping, enough grease dripped off my face to fill the Junk Food-inator. Nothing can stop me now! Hoo, I gotta sit down.
(The Junk Food-Inator shoots out, and hits the ice sculpture, melting it down to a small statue of Bob and Tiana and makes a snow like scenery. The ice scorpion is blasted towards DEI)
Doofenshmirtz: What the--? (Scorpion collides into the -Inator) Suddenly I feel like a glass of apple cider. I don’t know how you did that, but get ready to pay, Perry the Platypus! (Stomach growls) Uh, can you hold on one second? (Goes to washroom; toilet flushes) Okay, here we are, let’s do this-- (Stomach growls) Uh, uh, you know, just hold on. (Door closes) Ah you know Perry the Platypus, uh, you can just let yourself out. I...I may be a while.

(Scene switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher household, where snow is falling)
Candace: (offscreen) Are you ready Aunt Tiana?
Tiana: Wow, you even made it snow! Wait, what about the ice sculpture with all our great adventures?
Ferb: They say the step you’re about to take is the beginning of your greatest adventure yet.
Phineas: Little corny there, bro.
Ferb: Just (Picking up guitar) teeing up the song.
Phineas: Oh yeah!
(Song: "Wedding Adventure")
♪ With every step you take ♪
♪ The journey of your life ♪
♪ And your adventure begins ♪
♪ As husband and wife ♪
♪ The one you love is here ♪
♪ He's making things okay ♪
Bob: Okay!
Phineas: ♪ Just think of all the adventures on their way! ♪
♪ Like... ♪
Ferb and Chorus: ♪ Bull-running! ♪
♪ Bungee-jumping! ♪
♪ Sky-diving! ♪
♪ Hang-gliding! ♪
♪ Base jumping! ♪
♪ Wake-boarding! ♪
All: ♪ Wedding adventure! ♪
Ferb and Chorus: ♪ Snowboarding! ♪
♪ Scuba-diving! ♪
♪ Treasure hunting! ♪
♪ Whip cracking! ♪
♪ Head banging! ♪
♪ Foot stomping! ♪
All: ♪ Wedding adventure!
Phineas: ♪ Bob and Tiana are husband and wife ♪
♪ They're gonna have the time of their life ♪
♪ By ♪
Ferb and Chorus: ♪ Ski-jumping! ♪
♪ Snake-charming! ♪
♪ Cow-tipping! ♪
♪ Hamster-chasing! ♪
♪ Cake-baking! ♪
♪ Car-washing! ♪
All: ♪ Wedding adventure! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Remember every step that you take ♪
♪ Started with Candace's chicken cake ♪
Chicken: Ba-kaw!
Phineas: ♪ It doesn't matter how you choose to toss the dice ♪
All: ♪ Your marriage is the adventure of your life ♪
(Bob and Tiana kiss)
(Pause)
Linda: Candace, where's the justice of the peace?
(Another pause)
Candace: AW, NUTS! Ugh, just give me a minute. (Walks away and dials phone)

End credits
Phineas: ♪ Bob and Tiana are husband and wife ♪
♪ They're gonna have the time of their life ♪
♪ By ♪
Ferb and Chorus: ♪ Ski-jumping! ♪
♪ Snake-charming! ♪
♪ Cow-tipping! ♪
♪ Hamster-chasing! ♪
♪ Cake-baking! ♪
♪ Car-washing! ♪
All: ♪ Wedding adventure! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Remember every step that you take ♪
♪ Started with Candace's chicken cake ♪
Chicken: Ba-kaw!
Phineas: ♪ It doesn't matter how you choose to toss the dice ♪
All: ♪ Your marriage is the adventure of your life ♪



(Scene opens in the backyard)
Candace: ♪ Bubble gum, bubble gum, running in a sack. Hop to the finish and don't look back. ♪ C'mon, Dad. Sing it.
Lawrence: I can't remember the words.
Phineas: What to do. What to do.
Candace: Gangway, on your right. One side, coming through. (trips over Perry) (at Phineas) Argh! How many times have I told you to keep Perry out of my way when I'm balancing eggs on a spoon?
Phineas: Um, never?
Candace: I would have thought it would have been understood.
Phineas: What the heck are you doing, anyhow?
Candace: I'm training for this year's father daughter picnic competition. And I'd really like to win for a change.
Dad, c'mon! We're not finished practicing!
Lawrence: I'll be right there, sweetheart, I'm just clearing a spot for the trophy we're going to win today.
Candace: Dad, those trophies are lame. "Last place?" "Nice try"?
Lawrence: Oh, c'mon, how about his one? First place! (Takes out a trophy)
Candace: It means "loser", Dad. (Makes an L shape with her fingers on her forehead)
Lawrence: Well, that's not very nice, is it. But look on the bright side, Candace, this year we might take home one just like this. Ta da! (Makes a W with his three fingers on his forehead)
Candace: Third place?
Lawrence: No, winner. It's a W.
Linda: How are my two favorite competitors doing?
Candace: Ugh. (Leaves)
Linda: Well, I've got a few errands to run. But I should be there by the time the contest starts.
Lawrence: Oh, please try to make it, I think Candace could really use someone cheering her on.
Phineas: Did you hear that, Ferb? I know what we're going to do today! Hey, where's Perry?
(Perry knocks on the lair door and jumps in it after it opens. Lawrence walks by with a basketball)
Lawrence: (notices the lair entrance) How peculiar. Anybody there -- (falls through the door and slides down to Perry's lair) Oh.
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. (Lawrence gasps and hides behind the hovercar) Doofenshmirtz has been doing some research on the structural properties of glue. It's probably not... (continues under)
Lawrence: Say, that fellow wearing the dashing fedora looks awfully familiar...
Major Monogram: Good luck, Agent P.
(Perry jumps out of his seat)
Lawrence: (gasps) Perry?!
(Perry goes up the elevator)
Lawrence: Why do I get the feeling I wasn't supposed to see that? (trips on a cable) Ooh! That hurt. (lands in the memory eraser and mumbles)
(The screen begins playing everything that happened earlier in reverse)
Computer: Memory erase sequence initiated. 5% completed.
(Shift to the backyard, Isabella arrives)
Isabella: Hey, Phineas! Hi, Ferb!
Phineas: (he and Ferb are bouncing on something) Hi, Isabella. Come on in.
Isabella: (enters) What'cha doin'?
(reveal they are bouncing on a giant pump and fire hoosher)
Phineas: Oh, just trying to generate 40,000 cubic feet of compressed air.
Isabella: What's it for?
Phineas: You'll see in a minute. I don't wanna blow the reveal too soon.
Isabella: Anything I can do to help?
Phineas: We still need some pom-poms, a fog machine, and 372 feet of bungee cord!
Isabella: (she wrote this down) You got it!
(Shift to the lair, Carl comes in sweeping, he is humming Gitchee Gitchee Goo)
Computer: Memory erase: 95% completed.
Carl: (deactivates the memory eraser) Mr. Fletcher, are you okay?
Lawrence: Daddy?
Carl: Uh-oh. (sees Monogram try on fake mustache) Major Monogram, we have a situation here. Mr. Fletcher got caught in the memory eraser!
Major Monogram: Great googly moogly, Carl! This could bring down the entire organization. (straightens his mustache) Get him back to headquarters right away so we can restore his memory.
♪ Carl! ♪
(Scene shifts to O.W.C.A. headquarters. Carl is carrying "baby" Lawrence)
Lawrence: Dada!
Major Monogram: We can't let the family see him like this, he's got the brain of a toddler. We need to restore his memory before he's missed at the Father Daughter Picnic.
Carl: But that'll take over three hours!
Lawrence: Ah-ha-ha-ha! Dada!
Major Monogram: Better hurry before it's time to change him.
Carl: Sir, I have--
Lawrence: Da da da da da da da da!
Carl: Will you stop it? I am trying to have a conversation.
Lawrence: WAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHH!
(Carl puts a pacifier in Lawrence's mouth, quieting him.)
Carl: As I was saying sir, I may have a solution. (presses a button, opening a garage) Anticipating just this kinda situation...
(Reveal the Flynn-Fletcher family robots)
(Song: Phinedroids and Ferbots (instrumental))
Carl: I have been building robot replicas of the Flynn-Fletcher family. We can get Agent P to operate the Mr. Fletcher robot, until we can replace him with the real Mr. Fletcher!
Major Monogram: W-wait a minute. You anticipated a specific situation like this?
Carl: Yup.
(long pause)
Major Monogram: Wow, that's a little creepy, Carl.
Carl: Yes. (pause) Yes, it is.
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz, in a pilot uniform, already monologuing to Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: ...and by "inopportune", of course, I mean, "Completely opportune!!" I was just about to drop an entire container of "eulg" on the Tri-State Adult Diaper Factory! And what is eulg, you may ask? It's the opposite of glue. (Squirts some on a boombox.) A few drops of this will make anything fall apart. See? Now, witness as I—
(Perry's watch beeps.)
Major Monogram: (on watch) Agent P, (Perry holds up a finger to signify "wait a minute") Agent P, you must abort your current mission! There is something much more important than Doofenshmirtz!
Doofenshmirtz: Hello? I'm right here! I can hear you, you know!
Major Monogram: Rendezvous back at headquarters. Monogram out. (hangs up)
(Perry smiles embarrassingly at his adversary.)
Doofenshmirtz: Fine, fine. You have somewhere more important to be. But don't you want to know (Perry jets away) why I want to destroy the adult diaper factory? It's a terrific backstory!
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Y'know, this is gonna be a backstory, too, someday!
(Cut to the backyard where Candace is walking around.)
Candace: Dad! Where could he be? Dad, come on, we gotta go!
Phineas: Hey, Candace, you wanna see what we—?
Candace: DAD!!!
Phineas: Well, she'll see it soon enough. (To the Fireside Girls and pulling a rope to unveil something) Ladies and girls, I give you... (the dust cover comes off to reveal a blimp with an electronic sign with the words "GO CANDACE!" on it) the floating pep-squad mobile!
Fireside Girls: Go, Candace!
(Song: Kronk for Hire (instrumental))
Phineas: Come on. Let me give you the tour. First stop: our observation and media deck. Our engine room provides pollutant-free power along with a vigorous aerobic workout. And last but not least, our 360º fun bounce! (The girls giggle as they bounce around. Ferb, in a captain's uniform, blows a ship's whistle.) Sounds like it's time to get this baby airborne.
Isabella: Fireside Girls, start your pedaling! (The blimp takes off.)
Candace: Dad!
(Cut to Carl with Lawrence in the memory restorer.)
Computer: Memory restoration, 7% and counting.
(Pan left to reveal Monogram with Perry and the Lawrence robot.)
Major Monogram: That's why you'll be controlling this robotic version of Mr. Fletcher. (He carries Perry up and into the robot.) Unfortunately, the operation manual is in Dutch. (Gives Perry the foreign manual.)
Carl: But we were able to find a Dutch to French dictionary, and a French to English dictionary.
(Carl and Monogram salute.)
Major Monogram: Godspeed, Agent P. (Perry salutes back.) Now, commence startup.
(Cut to inside the robot. Perry skims through the Dutch manual, then the Dutch to French dictionary, then the French to English dictionary. He pulls on two handles and we hear a startup noise.)
Carl: Startup successful. Now try the body controls.
(Perry skims through the Dutch manual, then the Dutch to French dictionary, then the French to English dictionary. He pushes a button and the robot moves.)
Carl: Body controls seem to be good. Now try talking.
(Perry sighs and skims through the Dutch manual, then the Dutch to French dictionary, then the French to English dictionary.)
Lawrence Robot: Jolly good, Candace. As long as it's okay with Mum, it's okay with me. Stiff upper lip and all that.
Major Monogram: Uh, is that all he can say?
Carl: The kit originally came with one default phrase.
Lawrence Robot: Lovely windmill, isn't it.
Carl: Oh, those kooky Dutch! Now, Agent P, try to emote.
(The robot short circuits and its face blows off. Monogram yells.)
Carl: Oops, sorry. (Puts the face back on.) Sometimes this happens. I'm still working out the bugs then. There, good as new.
Major Monogram: (looking at his watch) And not a minute too soon. (gives thumbs up) Good luck, Agent P. Monogram out.
(The robot sputters and rockets up.)
(Cut to Danville Park where the Father Daughter Picnic is already underway. Candace is on her phone.)
Candace: Well, if you talk to Dad, just tell him to meet me at the park. I couldn't find him anywhere, so I came down by myself.
(Cut to Linda in a traffic jam.)
Linda: I'm sorry, Candace. I got stuck in a bit of traffic, but I'll be there as soon as I can.
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: If Dad doesn't get here soon, we'll have to— (The Lawrence robot appears.) Oh, nevermind, Mom, he's here! (to the robot) Let's go get checked in for the contest!
Lawrence Robot: As long as it's okay with Mum, it's okay with me. (walks away)
Candace: Okay.
(Pan up to reveal the floating pep-squad mobile.)
Phineas: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm Phineas Flynn. We have a perfect view of today's first event: The father-daughter tug o' war. Let's give our team a little encouragement.
(Two airhorns come out of the blimp and blow.)
Fireside Girls: Charge!
(Smoke appears out of a pipe spelling the words "GO GO CANDACE". Cut to Candace and her "father".)
Candace: Dad, look up there! (Cut to inside the robot where Perry is viewing Candace's busting attempt.) Phineas and Ferb are flying in a giant blimp!
Lawrence Robot: As long as it's okay with Mum, it's okay with me.
Contestants: Everyone, heave! Pull!
Candace: Whoa! Come on, Dad! Dig in your heels!
(Spikes come out of the robot's feet. The arms come apart and Candace lands in the mud. Perry pushes a button and two magnets come out of the armholes and retrieve back the arms. Muddy Candace walks by her fake father.)
Candace: Great, Dad! Looks like we're still losers!
Lawrence Robot: (follows her) Jolly good, Candace.
(Cut to the blimp, The sign now reads: "CHANGE POSITION")
Phineas: (offscreen) Our father-daughter teams are changing positions and settling in (a pie appears on the sign) for the gooseberry pie eating contest. Each team will have sixty seconds to eat as much pie as possible with their hands behind their backs.
(Horn blows. Candace digs in. The robot's mouth becomes a vacuum sucking all the pies. Cut to inside the robot. Perry gathers all the pies and sets them down. Cut to outside to reveal Perry putting the pies out of the butt of the robot. Balthazar passes by and sees this.)
Balthazar: Ew!
(Cut back to the blimp.)
Phineas: Now it's time for a real crowd pleaser! The father-daughter balloon animal sculpting contest. We've got a butterfly, a snail, Oh, and a snake. Very creative.
(Pan across to the Lawrence robot and Candace's creation.)
Judge: And, uh, this is a—?
Lawrence Robot: Lovely windmill, isn't it.
Judge: That's not technically a balloon animal. Zero points!
(The robot starts to shake and steam.)
Candace: Can you believe that?! She mocked you. Dad? (puts her hand on the robot) Ouch! Dad, you're burning up! I'll go get you some water. (Runs off.)
(Cut to inside the robot where Monogram is on screen talking to a sweaty Perry.)
Major Monogram: Agent P, I'm afraid your robotic Mr. Fletcher is overheating. Apparently, Carl forgot to top off the coolant levels.
Carl: (offscreen) Sorry, sir.
Major Monogram: You've got to keep that robot under control until we can make the switch. (Perry salutes.)
(Candace returns with a water bottle.)
Candace: Here ya go, Dad. Drink lots of water. (gets out her phone and dials) And where's Mom?! (The head of the robot opens up and Perry grabs the water bottle from the robot's hand and squirts lots of it inside.) She should have been here a long time ago!
Linda: (on phone) Candace, I'm just a few blocks away.
Candace: Well, hurry, Mom! You gotta see what Phineas and Ferb have creat—
Linda: (on phone) Ooh, sorry, Candace. Going through a tunnel. Gotta go.
Candace: (to the robot) Well, you look a lot better. Let's head on over to the water balloon toss.
(Cut to the sky where we see Doofenshmirtz flying an airplane.)
Doofenshmirtz: Closing in on the target. (Cut to the plane to reveal Doof reading a map.) With Perry the Platypus out of the scenario, nothing will stop me! (laughs)
(Cut back to the park. Phineas and Ferb lower themselves to a couple of guys in the bleachers.)
Phineas: Excuse me, sir, could you stand up and sit right back down?
Man: I...suppose.
(He does so causing a chain reaction in the bleachers.)
Phineas: Hey, we started a wave!
(Zoom out to show the water balloon toss.)
Candace: Gently. (She catches the balloon then throws it back to the robot, who catches it.)
Lawrence Robot: Jolly good, Candace. (Throws it back to Candace.)
Candace: Whoa-ee! (catches it) We're doing great, Dad! (She throws it back to the robot whose arm stretches out long, literally, and catches it.) Wow, nice reach!
(Cut to inside the robot where Monogram appears on screen again.)
Major Monogram: Agent P, we've finished restoring Mr. Fletcher's memory. You need to distract the girl so we can make the swap.
(The robot's arm twirls around causing the balloon to go very long.)
Candace: Uh-oh. (runs off) Don't worry, Dad! I'll get it! I'll get it!
(The robot walks through the bushes to the parking lot where the ice cream truck from "Swiss Family Phineas" is. Carl opens the back to reveal the real Lawrence with a helmet on his head inside.)
Carl: Hello, Agent P. (Carl pushes Lawrence out. The robot takes his "5" sign off and puts it on Lawrence.) Thanks, we gotta hurry! Off you go! (Pushes Lawrence through the bushes. Perry comes out of the butt again and Carl shakes his hand.) Nice work, Agent—
Balthazar: (offscreen) AHHH!
(Zoom out to reveal Balthazar staring. His ice cream drops to the ground.)
Carl: Our cover's blown! We gotta move! Go go go go!!! (The truck zooms away.)
Lawrence: Ugh, my head. Where am I?
Candace: Dad! Dad! I caught the balloon and the judges gave us some points for the longest distance!
Lawrence: Ow, yes, but where are we?
Candace: I think we're in second place. Let's go!
(Cut to:)
Doofenshmirtz: The adult diaper factory! I'll be over the target in exactly, ah, (tips the eulg bottle over while looking at his watch) five min— (gasps and watches some eulg hit the back of the plane) Oh, no, that's not going to be good. (The plane comes apart.)
(Cut back to the park.)
Phineas: Welcome to the final event. Ready? Set? (waves flag) GO!
(The sack racers take off.)
Candace: Keep up with me, Dad! We're getting out of rhythm!
Lawrence: I'm trying!
(They slow down and the other racers pass them by.)
Candace: Ow! Oh, Dad, it's hopeless.
Lawrence: Bubble gum, bubble gum, running in a sack. (Candace smiles) Hop to the finish and don't look back!
Candace: Dad, you remember!
Candace and Lawrence: ♪ Bubble gum, bubble gum, running in a sack, ♪
(They start hopping again.)
♪ Hop to the finish and don't look back! ♪
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb.)
Phineas: Isabella, park the blimp and get everyone down here for the final cheer!
(Cut to Isabella in the blimp.)
Isabella: We're on our way! (She parks the blimp and the Fireside Girls slide down the ladders.)
Candace and Lawrence: ♪ Bubble gum, bubble gum, running in a sack, ♪
♪ Hop to the finish and don't look back! ♪
(Cut to Doof's plane falling apart. He falls out of it screaming.)
Doofenshmirtz: (praying) Pleaseiwannaliveiwannaliveiwannalive! (lands on something. Zoom out to reveal it's the blimp.) What? I'm alive! Woohoo! (Part of the plane lands on him.) Ow! (More parts of the plane fall on him. Followed by a nail, which deflates the blimp) Curseyouperrytheplatypuseventhoughyouwerenteinvolvedinthischemewhatsoever!!!!
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb who are wearing giant Lawrence and Candace heads made of paper maché cheering with the Fireside Girls.)
All: ♪ Bubble gum, bubble gum, running in a sack, ♪
♪ Hop to the finish and don't look back! ♪
♪ Bubble gum, bubble gum, running in a sack, ♪
Ferb: ♪ Hop to the finish and don't look back! ♪
Candace: You got it, Dad!
Lawrence: Look, we're pulling ahead!
Candace: And, look! There's Mom!
Phineas: (on a megaphone) Go Candace! Go Dad! Go Candace! Go Dad!
Fireside Girls: Go, Candace!
(Lawrence and Candace cross the finish line.)
Linda: Great job! I'm so proud of you guys!
Candace: Mom, it was awesome!
Linda: Look, honey!
Judge: (offscreen) And the winner is...Candace Flynn and her dad, Lawrence!
Linda and Candace: Yippee!!! Yay!!!!
Lawrence: Huzzah!!!
Woman: (giving them the trophy) Congratulations!
Candace: Thank you! Heh. And thank you, Dad.
Lawrence: Do you know, Candace, I don't remember much of what happened here today, (hugs his daughter) but I'll never forget this moment with you.
(Cut to Phineas as Perry approaches him.)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry!
Balthazar: Hey, haven't I seen you before?
(Zoom out, cutting to the Agency headquarters as Monogram sees what just happened on a monitor.)
Major Monogram: Carl, we gotta fire up the memory eraser again.



(Scene opens at the Flynn-Flecher house)
Candace: (from inside, chuckles) Oh, Jeremy, I had no idea you've felt that way about me. (Cut to inside; she is talking to a paper mache Jeremy.) But I still have a lot to accomplish before I get married. (pause) Hold on. (puts candles between it) Much more romantic. (the phone rings) It's you! (on phone, in dreamy voice) Hello, Jeremyyyy!
Jeremy: Hi, Candace. I was wondering if you could do me a favor?
Candace: (dreamy voice) Yeeeaaahhh...
Jeremy: Listen, I got called into work and my parents aren't home, do you think you could look after Suzy for a few hours?
Candace: (dreamy voice) Yeeeaaahhh...
Jeremy: I'll be right over. Thanks!
Candace: (dreamy voice) Yeeeaaahhh... (needle scratch) Huh? Uh -- wait -- what did you say? Jeremy? NO! JEREMY! (to the paper mache) I'll be right back. (runs out panicking) Mom! Mom!
(In the living room)
Candace: Moooom! Jeremy's dropping off his little sister and I --
Linda: How nice. A babysitting job.
Candace: No, Mom, you don't understand! She's EVIL!
Linda: Don't be silly, Candace. She's just a little girl. How much trouble could she be? (Sees Phineas and Ferb under an out of control sprinkler) I see you've discovered the broken sprinkler. Yeah, I'd better get to the hardware store! It's beginning to look like Niagara Falls out here.
Phineas: Niagara Falls? (sits up) Know anything about that, Ferb-meister?
Ferb: (sits up) It's over 167 feet high. It's also tremendously popular with daredevils.
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! Hey, where's Perry?
(Cut to Agent P putting on his fedora. He lays on the grass and it flips for a second to a bunny in a patch of snow, then it flips again.)
Major Monogram: (with lots of unshaven hairs on his face) I can't believe you forgot to pick up new razors, Carl! Now I have to go on camera without a clean shave!
Carl: Me, too, sir.
Major Monogram: What? You don't have a single hair!
Carl: I have one, sir.
Major Monogram: Ew! Agent P, you're here! We're getting very suspicious about Doofenshmirtz. He hasn't ordered any bulk items from the Internet in days. Get over there and put a start to it! (Perry salutes.)
(Carl plays "Doo bee doo bee doo bah" on his one whisker.)
Major Monogram: Carl, you disgust and fascinate me.
(Cut to the house.)
Candace: Suzy'll be here any second! I hafta get this place in shape! Must! Hide! Anything! Suzy! Can! Use! Against me! (She throws away kitchen knives, the microwave, the blender, and Mr. Miggins in the trash. The doorbell rings. Cut to the front door, Jeremy and his little sister appear. Candace answers it wearing a very heavy protective suit.) Oh, hey! Hi, Jeremy!
Jeremy: Candace? What's with the outfit?
Candace: I get...cold.
Jeremy: (in non-belief) Uh...huh. Well, it's a statement. You guys have fun now. Bye!
(The door closes and Little Suzy does her evil laugh.)
(Cut to the backyard. Ferb is heard grunting and lifting a very heavy boulder to the top of a huge mountain.)
Phineas: Y'know, even though I know that was papier-mâché, that's still an impressive throw!
Isabella: Hey, Phineas! Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Hey, guys! (to Baljeet, who is inside a baby carrier held by Buford) What's with the baby carrier?
Baljeet: Ask him.
Buford: (chewing gum) My chiropractor recommended it. It's just as humiliating as a half-nelson, and easier on my tennis elbow. (crunching loudly)
Phineas: What's that grinding sound?
Buford: Tuff Gum! Like the song sez...
(Song: "Tuff Gum")
♪ Pound nerds like a drum, ♪
♪ Stop a train with your thumb ♪
♪ It's Tuff Gum! ♪
Phineas: Wow, can I have some?
Buford: Nah, I don't think so. It's for bullies only.
Phineas: (to Ferb) You got any regular gum?
(Ferb gives some to Phineas.)
♪ Regular Gum! ♪
Phineas: Alright, everyone. Ferb and I have built a giant waterfall, right. And we wanna do a test run. Who's in?
Buford and Isabella: (raising their hands) Me!
Baljeet: Can I go?
Buford: Well, just be careful. Cuz I worry about you.
(Cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry goes up the building on his rocket-powered skateboard.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus. (Perry gets tied up by a pair of electronic hands tying a shoelace around him.) How do you like my new Shoelace-inator? It's the perfect match for my new Carbon-Footprint-inator! (Cut to what looks like a giant black foot.) I made it entirely out of carbon paper I kept from the 1970s. I always thought it was going to come back. Tsk. Shame. Anyway, people are always talking 'bout reducing their carbon footprint. I don't really know what that means, but it sounds evil. "Carbon footprint." So, my plan is to leave giant carbon footprints all over the Tri-State Area! (Cut to Perry attempting to bite off his trap.) Don't bother, it's double-knotted.
(Cut to Suzy and Candace.)
Suzy: (evilly) So, Candace, are you ready to have some...fun?!
Candace: N-No-no-no. I'm good. I hate fun.
Suzy: I've got a little game we can play.
Candace: G-g-g-g-game?
Suzy: (rummaging through her backpack) It's called making...
Candace: M-m-making?
Suzy: ...paper...
Candace: P-p-p-paper?
Suzy: (nicely) ...dolls!
Candace: PAPER DOLLS?!?! Huh?
Suzy: It's for you!
Candace: For me? Aren't you going to do something horrible to me?
Suzy: Oh, no. Making you look bad is just one of the ways I control Jeremy. If he's not here, I'm off the clock.
Candace: Wait, you can control your brother?
Suzy: Can't you get your brothers to do anything you want?
Candace: No way! I can't get them to do anything!
Suzy: Un-ac-ceptable. To the backyard!
(Cut to the backyard where the gang are hammering on the mountain.)
Suzy: Hey, guys! (giggles) What'cha doin'?
Isabella: (angrily) Um, hello?!
Phineas: Hey, Suzy! We were just puttin' the finishing touches on our waterfall ride.
Suzy: Ah, just watching all this work makes me thirsty. What I wouldn't do for a cool lemonade.
Phineas: Lemonade? Whatever you'd like, Suzy. (Ferb gives Suzy a glass.)
Suzy: Thank you. (She sips as Candace looks in surprise.)
Candace: I have so much to learn.
Suzy: Well, now that you've watched the master at work, it's time for you to get yours.
Candace: Me? Oh, no! I'm not ready! I-I...
Suzy: What do you want?
Candace: To bust my brothers?
Suzy: (like a drill sergeant) Is that a question or a mission?!
Candace: A mission.
Suzy: So say it!!
Candace: I wanna bust my brothers!
Suzy: MEAN IT!!!
Candace: I wanna bust my brothers!!
Suzy: OWN IT.
Candace: I WANNA BUST MY BROTHERS!!!!!!
Suzy: Even better, get them to bust themselves.
Candace: Get my brothers to bust themselves? (in realization) Get my brothers to bust themselves. Get my brothers to bust themselves!! GET MY BROTHERS TO BUST THEMSELVES!!! GET MY BROTHERS TO BUST THEMSELVES!!!
Suzy: GO, GO!!!!
Candace: GET MY BROTHERS TO BUST THEMSELLLLLLLVES!!!!!!
Candace: (walks up to them) Hey, boys! What'cha doin'?
Isabella: Ugh, do I even need to be here?!
Phineas: Going over Niagara Falls in a barrel. Wanna come? It's gonna be sweet!
Baljeet: (being carried by Buford up the ladder) If Buford does not drop me first.
Buford: Tuff guys don't drop stuff. ♪ Tuff Gum!! ♪
Suzy: Alright, Candace! Time ta bring it on home!
Candace: Phineas and Ferb, I want you to pick up the phone right now—
Suzy: Psst! (smiles widely)
(Candace does a rather huge smile, then makes her eyes grow bigger turning herself into Creepy Candy. Phineas looks at her confused. Creepy Candy makes her face look even more disturbing.)
Phineas: Everything okay, Candace?
Candace: (back in her normal face) D'oh! Can you just help me out and call Mom?!
Phineas: What? So she can come and see this gigantic insanely high waterfall we built in the backyard?
(brief pause)
Candace: Yes?
Phineas: Great idea! Can I borrow your phone? (Candace gives Phineas her phone, and he dials.)
Candace: (to Suzy) Hey! (Suzy gives Candace a thumbs up.)
(Cut to Linda doing some shopping. Her phone rings. She picks up.)
Linda: Whadaya know? It's Candace. Right on schedule. So what kind of unbelievable contraption have Phineas and Ferb built that requires me to come home immediately?
(Cut to Phineas.)
Phineas: An unbelievably cool waterfall ride right in our backyard! You gotta come home right away!
(Cut back to Linda)
Linda: Phineas? Is that you? You sound just like Candace. I mean, you sound like you, but the things you're saying—
Phineas: (on phone) Hurry up! You gotta see it!
Linda: Alright, alright, just as soon as I find the right sprinkler part! (hangs up) I curse the day these things were invented!
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Dirigible, with the Carbon-Footprint-inator under it.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Carbon Footprint! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (a little hoarsely) Everything is going— (clears throat) Everything is going according to my plan! Soon, Danville will know what it is to be trodden upon by true genius! (Perry attempts to get out of his trap) I think I'll start with a pond or bushes or something. You know, to beef up the whole anti-environmental theme I've been dancing around. (Perry finally comes loose from his trap.) Wait, where was that from? (Perry punches Doofenshmirtz.) How did you get out of that double knot? (Perry flings himself at Doofenshmirtz, but Doofenshmirtz pulls a lever opening a window, and Perry jumps out.) Hey, you like the window? I just had it installed! Sayonara, Perry the Platypus! (Agent P's parachute pops out.)
(Cut to the gang at the top of the waterfall in a barrel.)
Phineas: Alright, Buford, we're ready for you! You can let 'er rip!
Buford: Roger that! (grinds loudly)
Isabella: Better eighty-six the gum. It's a choking hazard.
Buford: Oh, all right. (takes it out and sticks it onto the faucet) But I'll be back for that bad boy. Alright, let's do this!
(He turns the wheel, and the water comes out of the faucet. The gang fall down the waterfall in their barrel.)
Phineas: I CAN'T WAIT FOR MOM TO SEE THIS!!
Candace: This is it! Today's the day! It's my day! It is my day!!
(The gang land at the bottom.)
Baljeet: But was Buford not in the barrel with us?
(Buford falls onto Baljeet's head.)
Buford: Bullseye!
(Cut to Perry at a building with a sign that says: "MR. BANANA WHOLE SALE." Pan left to a truck.)
(Cut back to the backyard where the gang is all wet.)
Phineas: Whoa, that was great! I can't wait for Mom to see it!
Candace: Me, too! (car horn honks) Mom's home! Yes! (grabbing Phineas) C'mon! Let's go tell Mom! Let's go let's go let's go!
(Cut back to Perry in the truck. The manager is speaking with him.)
Manager: Congratulations! You are now an official driver for the Mr. Banana Company. (Perry drives off) Man, that is so funny, I literally just wrote a song about a platypus driving a banana truck! Hmm. Hmm? Wait! My demo!
(Cut to the truck. Perry pops the CD in the CD player.)
(Song: "Alabama Bound")
♪ He's Alabama bound with a load of bananas, ♪
♪ Headin' south across the Mason-Dixon line, ♪
♪ Then he's haulin' pineapples to Gary, Indiana, ♪
♪ Gotta burn some rubber, make that highway whine! ♪
♪ He's a mobile mammal and I bet you a fiver ♪
♪ He's eatin' hush puppies and corn on the cob, ♪
♪ He's a semi-aquatic semi driver, ♪
♪ A full-time agent with a part-time job! ♪
Aw yeah, I'll bet you a fiver!
That there's a mobile mammal!
♪ Ooh-ooh-ooh, ooh-ooh-ooh, ooh-ooh! Woo! ♪
(Cut back to the house.)
Candace: Mom Mom! Phineas wants to show you something!!
Phineas: We built Niagara Falls in the backyard! Wanna see it?
Linda: Why, I'd love to, honey.
Candace: Yes! Yes! Finally!
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz.)
Doofenshmirtz: Alright, Danville, get ready for a carbon footprint you'll never forget!! (The Carbon-Footprint-inator stomps onto the faucet, but the gum gets stuck to it.) What? What? Oh, see? This! This is why I hate nature! It's always getting stuck to your foot! Yech!
♪ Tuff Gum! ♪
(The waterfall drops off.)
Doofenshmirtz: There ya go.
(Cut to the farmer and his wife outside a building with a sign that reads: "Spring Water Bottling.")
Farmer's Wife: I can't believe it! You walk away from a profitable miniature golf franchise and open up a spring water bottling plant right in the middle of town! What? Didja think a mountain spring was just gonna fall out of the sky?
(It does.)
Farmer: You never believed in me.
(Cut back to the blimp.)
Doofenshmirtz: Alright, we'll try this again. Blah blah blah carbon footprint! (Cut to trucker Perry. He pulls the brakes, and the back part lifts, dropping the big banana off of it. The carbon footprint slips and kicks the blimp deflating it. Doofenshmirtz sighs.) I suppose this was inevitable. Curse you, Perry the Platypus! (Crash!)
(Cut to the backyard.)
Linda: Well, kids, you're right. It does look like Niagara Falls back here. (Puts a sprinkler part on the leak.) But this part will fix that. Voila! So, who wants pie!
(Everyone raises their hands and shouts.)
Candace: No! How could this be?! It was supposed to work this time! Don't you have anything to say?!
Suzy: Results may vary?
(Jeremy comes through the gate.)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace!
Candace: Hi, Jeremy!
Suzy: (giving Candace a hose) Hold this, please.
Jeremy: How's it going?
Candace: Perfect! Everything is— (gets squirted) Guess we're back on the clock.
Suzy: Splishy-splashy! (giggles)

End Credits
♪ He's Alabama bound with a load of bananas, ♪
♪ Headin' south across the Mason-Dixon line, ♪
♪ Then he's haulin' pineapples to Gary, Indiana, ♪
♪ Gotta burn some rubber, make that highway whine! ♪
♪ He's a mobile mammal and I bet you a fiver ♪
♪ He's eatin' hush puppies and corn on the cob, ♪
♪ He's a semi-aquatic semi driver, ♪
♪ A full-time agent with a part-time job! ♪
Woo!



(Phineas and Ferb are sitting under the tree when suddenly an apple falls and hits them on the heads)
Phineas: Haha, gravity. Hm, I wonder if there's any way around that.
Candace: What are you guys doing?
Phineas: Well, right now we're just thinking about defying gravity.
Candace: Please, even you can't change the law of gravity. It's a universal law, like "You can't wear white after Labor Day".
Phineas: An absolute law without a hope of appeal? That's despotism! Somebody oughta- Hey, that's it! I know what we're gonna do today! Hey, where's Perry?
Candace: Right here.
Phineas: Oh, I didn't see him there.

(cut to O.W.C.A.'s headquarters)
Major Monogram: Carl...
Carl: One minute, sir! Just finishing my status update. "Carl's interning like there's no tomorrow!" Done.
Major Monogram: Carl, I just completed your intern evaluation report. You've earned a gold star in every category except one. You need to show more initiative.
Carl: Sir, I've never gotten less than a gold star in my whole interning life.
Major Monogram: Well, I do have 24 hours before I have to submit my evaluation. Prove that you can show initiative and that gold star is yours.
Carl: I'll start right now by triple-checking the chattosphere for suspicious activities.

(cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb. Nice job on the blueprint for our Anti-Gravity Fun Launcher. I just posted it on our website so Baljeet can check the math. (phone rings) Hey, Baljeet, that was fast.
Baljeet: Your blueprints are 97% accurate. But you accidentally placed a cosine where you needed a quadratic differential! (laughs) Not to worry. I fixed it. I will send an attachment.
Phineas: Excellent.

(cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: There's absolutely nothing going on today.
Norm: Have you finished that puzzle yet?
Doofenshmirtz: No, I lost the stupid box lid. Now I can't figure out how to solve it.
Norm: Then you could finish building me a bride out of icicle-pop sticks like you promised.
Doofenshmirtz: I'd like to help you out, Norm. Really. But look at my tongue. (his tongue is blue) See? Look at that. My doctor said no more blue raspberry icicle-pops until the blue dye flushes completely out of my system.
Norm: Why must I be alone?
Doofenshmirtz: I don't know. Why are raspberry icicle-pops blue? (Norm kisses the icicle-pop stick bride) And I know what you are doing, Norm! You're a sick, sick robot! I need a really evil scheme. But-- Oh, it's so hard to create when I'm in one of my moods. (uses computer) Maybe I can borrow someone else's plans from the Internet. (types; sees blueprints) Blueprints, and...search. Ooh, an Anti-Gravity Fun Launcher! How about the Anti-Gravity Evil Launch-inator? There. I changed the name, that makes it mine. This could be the greatest scheme ever!
(cut to the lab at O.W.C.A. headquarters)
Carl: (gasps) Doofenshmirtz just downloaded a blueprint. (reads the blueprint) "Anti-gravity fun launcher"? Sounds fishy. Let's run it through the anagram decoder. (sees the words "Evil Fanatic Hunt R Raygun" on the screen; gasps) Major Monogram!
Major Monogram: You don't have to yell. I'm right here.
Carl: Doofenshmirtz just downloaded these plans for an anti-gravity fun launcher. But when I run that through the anagram decoder, the letters form "Evil Fanatic Hunt R Raygun".
Major Monogram: Looks like you're missing an E.
Carl: They're probably just trying to mislead us. Let's check the source. (looks at the Flynn-Fletcher file) Agent P's owners! They must be in league with Doofenshmirtz.
Major Monogram: I don't know, Carl. Sounds a little far-fetched.
Carl: But wait, listen to this. It's a seemingly innocent voice recording of Phineas. (plays the voice recording)
Phineas: (voice recording) Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today.
Carl: But if we play all those syllables backwards in a random order, we get...
Phineas: (voice recording) Let's help Doofenshmirtz d-destroy the Tri-State Area.
Major Monogram: Keep a close eye on those boys. See what else you can find out.
(cut to Monogram talking to Perry)
♪ Perry! ♪
Major Monogram: Agent P, we need you to track down a missing agent. Code name: Agent G. We're not sure of his current location, but we have a few leads placing him in Iceland, Monte Carlo, Burbank, California, and the moon. It's up to you to chase that goose and bring him back to the agency. Good luck, Agent P. Monogram out.
(cuts over to Monogram and Carl)
Carl: So, who is Agent G again?
Major Monogram: Garry the Gander? Oh, that's just a wild-goose chase. Get it? Goose, gander? Heh. Uh, we had to distract Agent P because he's too close to Phineas and Ferb.
Carl: Then who will investigate the boys?
Major Monogram: Hm, we need to send someone in undercover. All the agents are out on their missions. (upbeat theme plays)
Carl: (squeals)
(Song: Carl, Incognito)
♪ Carl! ♪
♪ Dressed as a cheerleader! ♪
♪ Carl! ♪
♪ Now he's wearin' a pinafore!♪
♪ Carl! ♪
♪ In his pajamas! ♪
♪ Carl! ♪
♪ Now he's a guy from the Civil War! ♪
♪ Dressed as a cowboy or an old steel worker, ♪
♪ And now he's the lead in a '40s tearjerker! ♪
♪ He's Carl! ♪
♪ Incognito! ♪
Major Monogram: Good luck, Agent Carl.
Carl: You can count on me, sir.
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
Phineas: Okay. Now where's Perry?
(cut over to Perry)
(dramatic theme playing)
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
Phineas: All right, guys, chop-chop. Time to prove Sir Isaac Newton wrong.
Carl: Sir, I've reached the target. Over.
Monogram: Roger that, Carl. Now observe, then infiltrate.
Isabella: Who's that, Phineas?
Phineas: Oh, hey, kid. You wanna help?
Carl: (to Phineas) Me? Sure. (to Monogram) Sir, I've made contact.
Phineas: Hey, thanks. What's your name?
Carl: Uh... (thinking) Say a cool name like Nitro, Dax or Steel. (to Phineas) My name is Carl. (groans)
Phineas: Nice to meet you, Carl. Come and join us in the fun.
Carl: (to Monogram) Sir, I've gained their trust. (to Phineas) So, what kind of scheme is this?
Phineas: We're just having fun challenging universal laws.
Carl: (to Baljeet) So, I hear you're the math genius behind this operation.
Baljeet: Oh, no, no, no. Phineas and Ferb's blueprint was already brilliant. I just made a minor modification.
Carl: Interesting. (to Ferb) So, Ferb, you don't talk much, do you?
Ferb: Actually, I--
Carl: Oh, what's that over there?
(makes a screen transition)
Phineas: Nice job, everyone. It came out perfectly. Who wants to go first?
Isabella: I think our guest should go first.
Carl: Ah, uh, me? (muttering; walks into the Anti Gravity Fun-Launcher)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb, let's see what we can do about that pesky gravitational pull.
Carl: (gets hit with Anti Gravity) Ah! What's happening?
Phineas: Don't worry. It only lasts fifteen minutes. Looks fun though, doesn't it? Let's all go.
Isabella, Baljeet, Carl, and Phineas: (cheering and laughing)
(upbeat theme playing)
Phineas: Coming through.
Carl: So, what exactly is the evil purpose in all of this?
Phineas: Evil? This is just for fun.
Carl: Hey, guys, wait for me.
(Song: When You Levitate)
♪ Bom-bom-bap-bum-ba-ba-da-ba-doo ♪
♪ Bom-bom-bap-bum-ba-ba-da-ba-doo ♪
♪ Bom-bom-bap-bum-ba-ba-da-ba-doo ♪
♪ Bom-bom-bap-bum-ba-ba-da-ba-doo ♪
♪ Carmen Carter: Gravity's not so much a law ♪
♪ as just a mere suggestion ♪
♪ Bass voice: Whether or not you're gonna follow it ♪
♪ is up to your discretion ♪
♪ Carmen Carter: So if you wanna get above the trees ♪
♪ Get ready for some zero G's ♪
♪ Bass voice: And get in line 'cause you know that there's no weight ♪
♪Carmen Carter: When you levitate ♪
♪ Bass voice: When you levitate ♪
♪ Carmen Carter: When you levitate ♪
♪ Bass voice: I said when you levitate ♪
♪ Carmen Carter: When you levitate ♪
♪ Bass voice: When you levitate ♪
♪ Carmen Carter: When you levitate ♪
♪ Person: Oh! ♪
♪ When you levitate ♪
Candace: Phineas and Ferb floating in midair? Ooh, they are so busted this time. I've gotta find Mom.
(Carl's watch beeping)
Monogram: (on Carl's watch) Carl, status update. Over.
Carl: Sir, I can't. (Ferb ties him up and he floats into midair and screams)
(cut to Major Monogram at O.W.C.A. headquarters)
Major Monogram: Carl? Carl! Oh, no, they must be torturing that poor kid. Don't worry, little unpaid intern, help is on the way.
(cut to Dr. Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Thanks for bringing this down for me, Norm. For some reason, it runs on solar power.
(sirens wailing)
Police: How many times do I have to tell you: You can't park in a loading zone?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, uh, it's not a vehicle. It's an evil device. You see, this is what I do for a living. (gets a ticket; changes to a shocked face)
(cut to Doofenshmirtz chasing his -inator)
Doofenshmirtz: No, don't! Oh!
(cut to casino)
(suspenseful action theme playing)
(Perry is playing a game with someone else at the casino. He flips over an Agent G card.)
All: (gasp)
Man #1: Gary ze Gander? I know nothing! (sees Perry come over to fight; speaks in foreign language)
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
All: (cheering and laughing)
Carl: That was so much fun. Remember when Isabella--?
Major Monogram: (clears his throat)
Phineas: Who's that?
Major Monogram: Uh, hello, son.
Phineas, Ferb, Baljeet, and Isabella: Hi, Carl's dad!
Major Monogram: Hello, children. Carl, uh, your mother and I were worried when you didn't come home. Uh, are you in trouble?
Carl: No, Maj-- Er, Dad. I was just playing with my new friends. Sir, situation neutralized.
Major Monogram: Abort mission. (over radio) I repeat, abort mission.
(helicopters, cars and trucks leave)
Major Monogram: Well, uh, ahem, son, it's time to go home-- and...
Carl: Aw, come on, Dad, can't I just stay for five more minutes?
Major Monogram: No, no, we have to go. Your, uh, mom is making dinner.
Phineas: See you later, Carl. It was a lot of fun. Nice kid. Last one in has to clean up.
All: (cheering)
(cut to Doofenshmirtz chasing his -inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Stop! (panting) Hm. That's an interesting shape. It looks famil-- (steps on a soda can) Aah! (sighs; sees the "Anti-Gravity Fun-Launcher / Anti-Gravity Evil-Launch-Inator) Wait. An anti-gravity evil launch-inator. I found another one. Heh. What are the odds? (turns on his phone) Norm, get down here. I need help.
(cut to the News Station)
Gordon Gutsofanemu: Our next guest is a covert secret agent. We've pixilated his face to conceal his identity. (to Perry) Now, I understand that you're searching for a long-lost colleague. (sees Perry's picture) Oh, you brought a picture. Now, viewers, if you see this agent, call in immediately.
(phone rings nearby; Perry runs away, without his pixilation!)
Gordon Gutsofanemu: Well, I guess he found him. Hey, buddy, you forgot your pixilation!
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
(Norm takes the Anti-Gravity Fun-Launcher)
(makes a little transition to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Norm, you're spectacular. I never knew you could do that.
Norm: Did you know I could also do this?: (turns into a vehicle)
Doofenshmirtz: Really? Wow. I should really read your instruction book.
Norm: Yes, yes you should.
Doofenshmirtz: (drives into the Norm Truck)
Candace: (in the car with Linda) It's about thirty feet tall with electrodes and stuff!
Linda: (flatly) Mm-hm.
Candace: You'll see, I'll just open the gate, and you'll -- (opens the gate) Eek! It's gone!
Linda: (flatly) That's a shocker.
(cut to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: (laughs) Norm, you've really outdone yourself today.
Norm: Does this mean--?
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, you'll have your icicle-pop stick bride.
Norm: Yay.
(The police catch Doofenshmirtz; siren wailing)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh-oh.
Police officer: You got a license to drive a robot with more than two axles?
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, um, uh...
Police officer: That's what I thought. Okay, Charley, pull her up.
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, motor vehicle code! (he gets towed away)
(cut to O.W.C.A. headquarters)
Major Monogram: I'm very proud of you, Carl. But my feelings for you can be better expressed in your evaluation.
Carl: All gold stars!
(building crashing)
Major Monogram: Oh, there you are, Agent P. Sorry about the wild-goose chase. You were just too close to this case. But don't feel bad. No one could ever find Agent G. He's been missing for far, far too long. (Perry pulls out Agent G) What the--? Agent G. On an extremely extended vacation, hm? Well, Agent P deserves a vacation more than you do. He deserves one, but unfortunately, evil never rests. So, we'll see you tomorrow. Well, this is getting a little awkward. Carl, my arm's getting tired and he won't salute back.



(Scene opens up on Phineas and Ferb in their backyard.)
Phineas: Ah, here's the doo-hickey that fuses with your spinal cord.
Isabella: Hey guys. What'cha doooin'?
Phineas: Today, we're gonna fuse our nervous systems with Dad's laptop and surf the web using only our cerebral cortexes.
Baljeet: Wow! Surely that would be quite an exciting project.
Phineas: Oh, hey Baljeet. Why are you dressed like a vegetable samosa?
Baljeet: Because today is the Tri-State Area Unification Day! I learned all about it in Assimilation class. You see, the Tri-State Area was the bi-state area until our founder, the great John P. Tristate, uttered the immortal words:
John P. Tristate: The, uh, bi-state area should be united with that adjacent area right over there.
Phineas: But we knew that. I was just wondering why you're dressed like a vegetable samosa.
Baljeet: Oh, that. My Uncle Kamal is doing an exotic cuisine float in the parade, and I'm the...
Phineas and Baljeet: Vegetable samosa!
Buford: Hey!
Baljeet: Buford?
(Buford walks up, and is also dressed up like a vegetable samosa.)
Buford: I thought I was supposed to be the vegetable samosa!
Baljeet: Why can we not both be vegetable samosas?
Buford: Oh, sure, two vegetable samosas! Why don't we all just dress like vegetable samosas? In fact, why don't we just all dress like mashed potatoes and take the word exotic right off the sign?!
Baljeet: Buford, wait!
Buford: No, man. It's over! I'm gonna go find another nerd!
Baljeet: But what about the Tri-State Area Unification Day parade?
Buford: What? Is that what this parade is for?
Baljeet: Does no one know what today is?
Buford: Well, excuse me, but that adjacent area was founded by my great-uncle Otto H. Adjacent! He didn't wanna be no part of no Tri-State Area unification, and neither do I! The blood of Otto H. Adjacent runs through these veins, and blood is thicker than water! (leaves)
Baljeet: Well, mango chutney is thicker than blood.
Buford: (Yelling) You're dead to me!
Phineas: (to Ferb) Parade? I love parades. Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today instead! We're gonna... Hey, where's Perry?
(In Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Ah, there you are, Agent P. Well, let's get down to brass tacks... (reading his clipboard) What's this? "Happy passive-agressive relationship day"? Oh, is that today?
Carl: That's okay, you probably weren't gonna get me anything, anyway.
Monogram: Weel, I completely forgot.
Carl: No, no, you know I didn't even want a present.
Monogram: Anyway... Where were we? For some reason Doofenshmirtz has purchased a tow truck. Which isn't evil in itself, but he may be planning on towing something evil, so, check it out.
♪ Perry! ♪
Linda: Candace? Are you ready for our girl's day out?
Candace: Just a sec mom! (She goes outside) Aha! Wait a minute. Are you guys just out here arranging kiddie wagons?
Phineas: At the moment.
Candace: Hmm, carry on. (Candace gets into the car with Linda) All clear, luckily the boys aren't up to anything.
(In the backyard, a large animatronic John P. Tristate is lowered onto their kiddie wagons)
Phineas: A little to the left. There you go.
Linda: Candace, you have to promise me that you won't obsess about Phineas and Ferb.
Candace: Yeah, sure Mom, I promise.
Linda: Don't just promise this time. Rise your right hand. Do you Candace Gertrude Flynn, solemnly swear not to obsess about your brothers, or you'll suffer the pharaoh's curse?
Candace: The pharaoh's curse?
Linda: Yes or No?
Candace: Okay, yes.
Linda: Okay, now we can ave fun.
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
(Perry bursts through the floor)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? (Doofenshmmirtz activates a trap, trapping perry in a door) Hahaha! You like that? I call it my "Indoors-inator". I got the idea from the Perry-shaped hole you left in my wall, and in my bathroom door, a-and in my fridge. Man you were hungry that day. Anyway, here's my evil plan. (He reveals his new -inatr) Ta-da! I'm calling it the "Duplic-8-inator". Get it? Duplic-, then the number "8", then -inator. I'll bet you're wondering what it does, huh? Here I'll show you.
(He fires off the -inator)
Farmer's Wife: I can't believe you started a monkey basketball team, and you've only got one monkey.
(The ray from the -inator hits the monkey, duplicating that monkey eight times)
Farmer's Wife: Oh great, now three of them are going to have to sit on the bench.
Doofenshmirtz: See? It duplicates everything eight times. When I zap those streets there will be eight time the traffic, and Danville will come to a standstill! That's where I will make off like a bandit. You see I bought this tow-truck off the internet, I'm going to call it the "Tow-inator" or something. And open a service, and then I'll go and... 'Course it'll be hard for me to drive anywhere, with all that traffic. T-that's a bridge I'll cross when I get there.
Nerd: (From atop a building) I've never been bullied into stopping a parade before. What should I do?
Buford: (Sighing) I don't know if this is working out. Can you talk in a Indian accent?
Nerd: Indian accent? No. I can do an English accent, instead! (Speaking with an English accent) Hello gov'! Top of the mornin', toodle pip! Last night Mr. Governor, my toilet was broken in two.
Buford: (He sighs) Actually that was pretty good.
Phineas: Okay everyone, let's show everybody what Tri-State unification is all about. Cue Love Händel!
(Song: "Tri-State Area Unification Day")
♪ The Tri-State Area was the Bi-State Area ♪
♪ With an adjacent area right over there!♪
♪ They put it all together, now there's no use denyin'♪
♪ This parade is all about our area unifyin'!♪
♪ There's only one thing we care about♪
♪ We want you all to stand up and scream and shout!♪
♪ It's the Tri-State Area Unification Day! ♪
♪ It's the Tri-State Area Unification Day! ♪
♪ It's the Tri-State Area Unification Day! ♪
(Buford and his Nerd release a fire hydrants water, attempting to re-route the parade)
♪ It's the Tri-State Area Unification Day! ♪
♪ It's the Tri-State Area Unification Day! ♪
Phineas: Ferb, water hazard ahead. Commence operation: unforeseen circumstance.
(Ferb drills a hole through the ground, allowing the parade to continue on it's intended route)
♪ It's the Tri-State Area Unification Day! ♪
♪ It's the Tri-State Area Unification Day! ♪
♪ It's the Tri-State Area Unification Day! ♪
♪ It's the Tri-State Area Unification Day! ♪
Buford: Ahh, nugget!
Nerd: (Speaking with an Italian accent) That's a too bad. Maybe you should a dress like a policeman and a re-reoute a the parade.
Buford: (After a slight pause) If that wasn't such a good idea, I'd flatten you.
Nerd: Momma mia. That was a close.
(At Bobbi's Hair Emporium)
Linda: See Candace? Isn't this nice just to get away and enjoy a day together?
Candace: You're right Mom, this is the best. I'm not even going to think about– Mm, you know. I'm not even going to say their names.
Linda: That's the spirit.
Candace: I'm just going to sit here and enjoy, Ooh, the parade coming by. Haha, look at that kid in the cute little car. (She notices that the kid is Phineas) Gah! (Candace slaps both hands over her mouth) Mom! Ah! What am I doing? I am blocking my view. What my brothers do doesn't affect me. Letting it go for just one day. (She takes a breath) Nails. Happy relaxing fun.
Linda: You say something, honey?
(Buford and his nerd dressed as policemen redirect the parade toward the junkyard)
Buford: Now they're headin' for the junkyard. Removes gravitational pull, it'll be impossible to escape. Am I thinkin' of a junkyard, or something else?
Phineas: Ferb treacherous terrain coming up. Execute operation: Thing in our way.
(Phineas's car scoops up the front half of the parade, the floats shrink down, and begin walking on four legs)
Buford: (Watching) AHHHH! Otto H. Adjacent will be avenged!
Doofenshmirtz: Now, which button was it? Because one of these buttons just makes it fire will-nilly all over the place. And, I don't want to hit that one by mistake. (Perry uses his tail to knock on the door that is holding him) Oop, someone's at the door. I'll be right there. Oh excuse me Perry the Platypus, what can I do- (He opens the door, freeing Perry, who punches Doofenshmirtz into the Dupic-8-inator, setting it off) Oh see there, that's, that's the willy-nilly button. (Perry dives at Doofenshmirtz, while the -inator fires off randomly)
Candace: Mom, this place is so fancy-shmancy.
Linda: I just hope it isn't too noisy with that silly parade going on outside.
Candace: Believe me, I'm trying to tune it out.
Linda: So, what looks good to you?
Candace: (Blocking her view of the parade with her menu) Remember the pharaoh's curse. Wait! It doesn't count if she sees them herself! Hey mom, I bet you can't turn your head 180 degrees like an owl.
Linda: (Turning her head) Nope, just ninety.
Candace: Hey, can you show me that twisty yoga move you do again?
Linda: Maybe after lunch, dear.
Candace: I'm curious what the back of you chair looks like, can you turn around and show me?
Linda: Okay, Candace, what's up?
Candace: Mom! Why can't you just turn around!!??
Linda: (turning, just as Phineas and Ferb's floats leave) Okay you want me to turn around? I'm turning around. Can we just eat lunch now?!
Candace: (pauses) Fine...
Buford: (From atop a building, overlook the parade) If that parade makes it to the end, my hopes for the Adjacent Area secession are through. I gotta stop it.
Nerd: (Speaking with a German accent) What is your next plan? I know it is going to be something clever!
Buford: That's it! The other accents were amusing, but that one's just offensive. (He hops onto one of the passing floats)
Nerd: (Still speaking with the accent) Wait! What about me?
Buford: I'm firin' you as my nerd.
Nerd: Das ist nicht gut. (This is not good.)
(A stray beam from Doofenshmirtz's Dupic-8-inator hits the small balloons on the kids' floats, duplicating them eight times; it causes them to lift up off the ground.)
Isabella: Well, that's weird that our floats are floating away.
Phineas: Yeah, well, they are called "floats".
Buford: (From atop one of the floating floats) What the–? (He unties a singular balloon, that pulls him away)
(Perry and Doofenshmirtz continue to fight, and Perry manages to get Doofenshmirtz to fall off his building onto a nearby floating balloon)
Doofenshmirtz: A platypus balloon? (The balloon passes by a billboard with a man wearing a fedora, and the balloon picks the hat up.) A Perry the Platypus balloon?!
(At a shoe shop)
Linda: Candace I'm having a great time with you today. See how relaxing to os when you're not abscessing about your brothers?
(Pause, Candace strains and groans.)
Candace: I can't take it anymore!! Mom, I really tried to my best to give you a day, but it's...the boys. The boys! They're in the parade! With giant floats! So come on, you've gotta bust them. (Grabs her and runs off)
Buford: (Still floating on the balloon, and seeing the Tri-State area) Wow, it's all just one, big place. No Bi-State area. No Adjacent Area, It's all just one big Tri-State Area, right over there! (The string he was holding onto rips off the balloon, opening a hole on the balloon) Mamma!
Doofenshmirtz: You know this balloon is actually– (He is cut off, as the balloon flutters about wildly) AHH! Curse you Perry the Platypus Balloon!!
Baljeet: (Seeing Buford fall) Oh no! Buford is in trouble! I must do something! (He goes to a man selling balloons) Please, my bully is in trouble, let go of all of your balloons.
Balloon Man: Yeah, okay. (He releases all of his balloons)
Baljeet: Thank you.
Balloon Man: No, thank you, vegetable samosa.
(Buford grabs onto some of the balloons and slows his fall.)
Fighter jet Pilot: Uh, did you guys see that? Let's investigate.
Phineas: What we really need is a grand finale, so spectacular, that people will always remember Tri-State Area Unification Day.
Isabella: Hey what's that?
Buford: (Coming down from his balloon, then releasing them) Happy...Tri-State...Unification...Day! Woo-Yeah!
(The squad o Fighter jets fly overhead)
Fighter jet Pilot: Yeah, just some Unification Day Parade stunt.
Phineas: That'll do it. Hey Buford great finale.
Isabella: Yeah, it was really, really nice.
Buford: Nice? Ah, now I gotta go do some'in' to balance out the universe. See ya' on the news. (He walks off)
Baljeet: Wait, wait, no Buford. No. No. No. Please don't. (A red liquid splashes Phineas, Ferb and Isabella) I was going to eat those jelly doughnuts.
Buford: Missed ya' Baljeet.
Baljeet: Right back at ya' buddy.
Ferb: An thus the universe is balanced.

End Credits
(On a curb)
Linda: Candace!
Candace: Behold, Phineas and Ferb have taken over the parade!
(Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Holly, Ginger, and Irving are seen towing their wagons in the parade)
Phineas: Hi mom!
Isabella: Hi Mrs. Flynn-Fletcher.
Irving: Hi Phineas and Ferb's mom. Say Cheese! (He takes a picture)
Linda: Oh, how adorable!
Pharaoh: Excuse me. Are you Candace Gertrude Flynn?
Candace: (pauses) Yes.
Pharaoh: Curse you. (He walks off)
Linda: I tried to warn you, honey.



(Episode opens on a night sky. An asteroid flies by. The title appears on the screen in large, green letters. Camera pans down to the house.)
Man's voice: Last night's meteor may not have been as innocent as we thought...
(Camera cuts to the television. A black-and-white movie is playing.)
Man: ...look what happened to Dr. Zachary!
(Pulls back curtains to reveal a man's head in a jar. Camera cuts to Phineas and Ferb on the couch watching the film.)
Phineas: (High-fives Ferb) Cool!
(Scene switches to Candace in her room. She hears the film playing.)
Candace: Now what? (Walks into the living room) Alright, what are you guys up to?
Phineas: Watching the Invasion of the Human Overlords marathon. They're playing all five movies tonight!
Candace: Is that all? Pfft. Well enjoy your lame, colorless marathon. I'm heading back.
(She starts to leave, then looks back at the screen)
Candace: Wait, who's that?!
Phineas: That's Dr. Abernathy. He's a scientist!
Candace: He's kind of hunky for a 50s guy.
"Dr. Abernathy": Don't worry. I'll you keep safe.
Woman: Thanks, doctor, but please call me Amanda.
"Dr. Abernathy": Alright... Amanda.
Candace: Sold! (Quickly sits on the couch) Get me up to speed.
Phineas: The aliens are replacing the heads of all the humans with their own shape-shifting, multi-eyed heads, which can then assume the form of the host human.
Candace: Get out, and then...?
Ferb: Once they replace more than 51% of all the humans, they can assume control the earth for their own nefarious purposes.
Candace: Shut up! And...?
(Perry growls and twitches in his sleep)
Candace: No way! Is there no way to stop them?
Phineas: If only you can catch them if they're in their human state. That's when they're at their weakest.
Candace: Then how you can tell if they're aliens?
Phineas: There's three kinds of ways to spot an alien. First, they have strange vocal patterns. They don't get human linguistics.
"Dr. Abernathy": Pass me that frie-bop, please.
Amanda: You mean this hammer?
"Dr. Abernathy": Oh, yes, hammer. Frie-bop is what we call it in Ohio... where I'm from.
Candace: What else?
Phineas: They're anatomically disproportionate.
"Dr. Abernathy": Now I need the sprigle-kronk.
Amanda: The what?
"Dr. Abernathy": Never mind. I'll get it.
Phineas: But the clear sign is that they can safely remove any human head, and replace it with their own multi-eyed, shape shifting head.
Candace: Well, yeah. I guess that will give it away.
Phineas: (pointing to the TV) Like this.
Amanda: Doctor? What's wrong. Are you alright?
"Dr. Abernathy": Yes, Amanda. I'm fine. We're all fine, and soon you will be too!
Amanda: NOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!
Alien: Sorry, Amanda, but we've waited long enough.
Amanda: NOOOO!!! (her head is in a jar) This can't be! What's happening?
The real Dr. Abernathy: I tried to warn you.

(Later in the evening...Candace is standing on the couch punching at the air)
Amanda: Doctor, your head is attached! You're human again!
Dr. Abernathy: Yes, and once Dr. Zachary returns from heading into those dark, ominous woods alone, with his not fully charged flashlight, you will be too... Amanda.

(The next morning...)
Amanda: But it was all right here! Oh, why did I think anyone would believe me? I was a fool! (sobs) A fool...!
("THE END?" is displayed over the screen)
Candace: Oh, my gosh, you guys. That was awesome. Guys? Uh, guys? Wow, it's tomorrow already. I gotta find those guys and tell them how it ended. ... Guys, guys, guys, ugh--
(Candace runs into Linda, who's carrying a laundry basket)
Candace: Sorry, Mom. Have you seen the boys?
Linda: Yeah, I think they're upstairs. Can you do me a favor and take the laundry up? I'm late for an appointment.
Candace: Sure, Mom.
Linda: Thanks, hon. I'll be back.
Candace: (Holding up a t-shirt) Oh, how cute. Ferb's torso is so tiny. (Upstairs; at Ferb) Oh, there you are. You know, that movie was so...
Ferb: (shouting indistinctly over computer)
Candace: Oops, sorry. I'll just put these in your room.<
Ferb's cousin: (Scottish accent) Oh, I wish you were there, Ferb.
Ferb: So do I. Tell Uncle Angus and Aunt Mora thanks for the candy.
Ferb's cousin: Too right. Scotland out. Peace.
Candace: Oh, hey, Phineas. Oh, my gosh, you missed it. By the end everyone got their heads back and everything went back to normal. Well, sort of. The entire laboratory disappeared. But I loved it. I can't look at anything the same way ever again.
Phineas: Cool, glad you liked it.
Candace: Ooh, I-- I almost forgot the coolest part. (In the backyard) Hey, guys. Guys. You're never gonna believe this. At the end, they-- (ominous theme playing) (gasps) Ferb? (sees what looks like Ferb removing his head, she screams and runs to the panic room) Oh, my gosh. Ferb's an alien. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Hang on a second. I'm sure there's a perfectly good reason Ferb can remove his head. I mean, it's not like he had any of the other telltale signs, is it? Oh, no.
(Flashback #1)
(speaking incoherently)
Candace: Strange vocal patterns...
(flashback #1 ends)
(Flashback #2)
Candace: (Holding up a t-shirt) Oh, how cute. Ferb's torso is so tiny.
(flashback #2 ends)
Candace: Anatomically disproportionate... (gasps) THEY GOT TO FERRRRRB!!!!
(Candace runs to Phineas)
Candace: Phineas, Phineas! I-- I know you're gonna think I've completely lost it, but I'm pretty sure that Ferb is an alien. I've got to find his head and re-attach it.
Phineas: My brother's an alien? How cool is that? But I think you may be letting your imagination get the best of you, sis.
Candace: Oh, a non-believer, huh? Well, you know what? I'm gonna get proof. You'll see. Ferb's an alien!
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?

(In Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Sorry about the distraction, Agent P. The ladies are helping to, uh, (reading from a card) "net-roy-er the lair."
Carl: Tré biens, Monsieur Monogram. Trés bien.
(The French maids giggle while Perry glares)
Maids: Bonjour, Carl.
Carl: Bonjour, Madame.
Maids: (giggles)
Major Monogram: So we're having a bit of a cleanup here, which coincidentally is what Doofenshmirtz seem to be having as well. He's put some old "-inators" up for sale on an evil auction site. If one of those devices were to fall into the wrong hands, it could be catast—Could—Could you please wait for me to finish, Mimi?
Fifi: Non "Mimi." Fifi.
Major Monogram: Oui, Fifi. (at himself) Oh, now I've lost my train of thought. (at Perry) Anyway, get out to Doof's place and put a stop to it. (at Carl) How much is this costing us, Carl?
Carl: Une petite fortune.
Major Monogram: "Petite." That means small, right? Well done, Carl.
Maids: (giggling)

(Song: "You're Not Ferb)"
♪ Something weird's going on 'round here ♪
♪ Gotta get me some evidence! ♪
♪ Some strange goings-on happenin' on the back lawn ♪
♪ And it's gettin' too intense ♪
♪ 'Cause you're not Ferb! ♪
♪ No, and I'm disturbed! ♪
♪ 'Cause you're not Ferb! ♪
♪ You've got the same colored hair ♪
♪ And his savoir-faire ♪
♪ And his zany serenity! ♪
♪ Though it's not conclusive, something elusive ♪
♪ Says you stole his identity! ♪
Candace: (screaming)
♪ 'Cause you're not Ferb! ♪
♪ No, you're not Ferb! ♪
♪ No, you're not Ferb! ♪
Candace: (screams)
♪ You're not Ferb! ♪
♪ You're not Ferb! ♪
♪ You're not Ferb! ♪
♪ You're not Ferb! ♪
♪ You're not Ferb! ♪
♪ You're not Ferb! ♪

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(doorbell chimes)
Doofenshmirtz: (opens the door) Oh, hello. You must be here about the ad, right? Well, come on in. It's right over here. (closes the door; dramatic music) Behold the Wrapped-Up-in-a-Nice-Little-Bow-Inator. (Perry, disguised as an evil scientist, blinks) I bet you're wondering what it does, huh? Well, let's say your nemesis is arriving sooner than expected and- And your place is a complete mess. (camera pans to a messy "bedroom") Tidying up is a snap (snaps fingers) with the press of this large, red button. (pushes aforesaid button) See? Wrapped up in a nice little bow. (close up of a box tied up with a red ribbon) You can also use it to hang your clothes on. (hangs one of his lab coats on the Inator) Just like a treadmill. (camera quickly pans to a treadmill with clothes hanging on it) So although my ad said firm, I am flexible, so make me an offer. (Perry blinks twice; Doofenshmirtz rubs a hand behind his head) Wow, you're a good negotiator. Okay, half price. (camera pans to a baseball bat and a container of baseballs) And I'll throw in my Druselstein minor-league baseball collection.
(action theme playing)
(Perry quickly pulls off his disguise then puts his fedora on)
Perry the Platypus? (grabs the baseball bat) Well, it's a good thing I still have my Druselstein minor-league bat. (Perry goes into a defensive position) Have at you!
(action theme playing)
(Perry bats the wrapped up box with his tail. He then kicks it towards Doofenshmirtz, who swings and misses, and the treadmill activates due to it rebounding off the start button.)
(Doofenshmirtz growls)
Aw.

(In Phineas and Ferb's room)
Candace: (giggling) Well, Phineas, what do you think? Wait. Before you say anything, look at these photos. I stalked "Ferb" all day. (shows Phineas some photos) See? Proof positive. Ferb...is an ALIEN.
Phineas: Um, well—
Candace: No, no, no, no, just wait till you see. Here, here.
Phineas: But—
Candace: Here, here.
Phineas: But—
Candace: Here and here. And listen to this: (whirring) See? That is an entirely different silence than the Ferb silence we're used to. Here, I'll pay it backwards. (Whirring)
Phineas: Um...
Candace: Fine. Here, here, wait, what about this hideous ball of goo?
Phineas: Listen, Candace, as cool as it would be for Ferb to be an alien, that's sadly not the case. Here, follow me and I'll show you.
Candace: Wait, show me what?
(In the backyard)
Phineas: Ferb, old pal, our dear sister here thinks you may be a sinister extraterrestrial visitor.
Candace: I saw Ferb's head ripped off by a hideous alien monster.
Phineas: Oh, you must mean this reverse power coupling unit we're repairing.
Candace: Reverse power coupling unit?
Phineas: Sure. That's all it was. Ferb's no more alien than you or me.
Candace: But—But what about all this evidence I've been collecting?
Phineas: Well, even though Ferb's not an alien, we are fixing a spacecraft for a friend of Meap's.
Candace: Wait, what?
Phineas: We just finished and we're about to launch.
Candace: Ferb, you're not an alien!...uh, you're about to launch? You guys are so busted, I'm getting Mom!
(Inside the house; the kitchen)
"Linda": (poking an uncooked chicken) Go. Go. You're free, little skin bird.
Candace: (quietly) Mom?
"Linda": Oh! Candace, you scared the bejabbers out of me.
Candace: Come on, I've got something to show you.
(In the backyard)Seriously, Mom, I've waited for this moment a long time. (to Phineas and Ferb) All right, you two, let's get this show on the road!
(The ground rumbles, a launch pad with a ship rises out of the ground)Yes!!! Ooh, how cool is this? (starts dancing) ♪ So busted, so busted, so busted! ♪ Mom, are you seeing this? I -- I -- I -- I can't believe this is happening! You guys are so busted! And I busted you, for once, Mom is right here to see it! (laughs) Right, Mom?
"Linda": Yes.
Candace: She sees it! All...right! (starts dancing again) ♪ So busted, so busted, so busted! ♪
"Linda": You two have done a great job repairing my ship.
Candace: So busted! Ha -- (stops dancing) Huh? Your ship?
("Linda's" face opens up to reveal Meap's friend, "Linda" is actually a robot)
Meap's friend: (speaks in alien dialect)
Phineas: No problem, Garbog. I hope you finished your study on the habits of the human female parental unit.
(Ferb gives a thumbs up)
Garbog: (speaks in alien dialect)
(Garbog flies up to the spaceship and flies it out of sight)
Candace: Uh, I -- I -- (sobbing) 
(car horn)It's Mom! The real Mom! And I still have proof! (the Linda robot disappears) Crud. (gasps) But the launch pad is still there! (runs off)
(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
(While Doofenshmirtz and Perry were fighting, Perry kicks a box into his mouth. When he removes the bow, everything in the box starts to release.)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh-oh.
(When Doofenshmirtz grows too much, he pushes his inator away. Perry then jumps onto it and escapes.)Curse you, Perry the Plat- (he groans, then spits out a chair) Why did I ever order such a large bedroom set?
(Perry pushes the button on the Wrapped-Up-in-a-Nice-Little-Bow-Inator and the entire building gets wrapped up in a nice little bow)
(action theme playing)
♪ Agent P! ♪
Ow! Wow, you know, it's quite a bit roomier in here than you'd think.
(When the inator hit the ground, it launches a ray into space, then it reaches a satellite and gets launched back to Earth)
(In the kitchen)
Candace: Mother? Is that you? I mean, really you?
The real Linda: Candace, I don't have time right now. I have frozens.
Candace: Yep. That's you. (pushes her) Come on, Mom, quick!
(In the backyard)
Phineas: Nice design on that rocket gantry, by the way.
(The ray hits the launch pad and wraps it up in a nice little bow)
And it folds up for easy storage. Cool.
Candace: (With her eyes closed) Please, please, please, please be there...!
Linda: (flatly) And I'm seeing...the backyard.
Candace: NOOOOOO!!!!!
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
Candace: (sobs) But it was all right here! Oh, why did I think anyone would believe me? I was a fool! (sobs again) A fool...!
(Just like in the last movie, "THE END?" is displayed over the screen)



(Scene opens up showing the Superduper Mega Superstore.)
Candace: Hurry, Mom! You're nobody unless you're somebody in Glosstacular lipstick!
Linda: All right, Candace. At least let me stop the car.
Candace: I'm nobody unless I'm somebody! I'm nobody unless I'm somebody!
Linda: I want you boys to pick out some nice back-to-school clothes. (Phineas, Ferb, and Linda enters the store, and presently walk back out) Wow, that was fast.
Phineas: Well, we do have a signature look. (Phineas sheepishly grins as they have the opposite clothes) Although Perry's mixing it up a bit.
(Perry, wearing a green scarf, chatters)
Linda: Cute. Okay, here's some quarters for the arcade. I'm gonna see what's keeping your sister.
Phineas: Okay. See you later, Mom. With this many quarters we can play seventy-two straight hours of– Hey, check it out. This was my favorite ride when I was little.
Repairman: Better enjoy it while you can, boys. These old fellows are pretty worn out. I'll be back in a little while to haul them away.
Phineas: What a shame. I wonder if they're still as much fun as they used to be.
(In a flashback Phineas and Ferb ride the spaceship rides to defeat a giant robot)
Phineas: You know, in retrospect, I may have over-romanticized those memories. But I'll bet with a little effort and some unstable uranium isotopes, we could make them that much fun. Ferb, I know what we're gonna– Hey, where's Perry?
Buford: (playing a DDR-equse game with Baljeet as Perry walks past) Oh, get with the beat. You're messing up my score.
(Perry puts a coin into a driving game, and then drives the entire console away to his lair)
Major Monogram: Carl, are you sure I don't have any more clean uniforms?
Carl: That's the last one, sir.
Major Monogram: I mean, seriously. I'm growing mushrooms under here. (He sniffs himself) I don't smell too bad, do I?
Carl: I can't smell a thing.
Major Monogram: Well, that's a relief. I thought maybe I was–
Carl: No, I can't smell a thing, sir, I have no sense of smell.
Major Monogram: Really?
Carl: I was born without nostrils, sir.
Major Monogram: Oh, I thought you were joking about that on your resume. (Perry arrives) Ah, Agent P. Uh, just give me a few seconds. (Major Monogram transfers to the screen of the video game cabinet) Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been buying up every can of aerosol deodorant in the Tri-State Area. And I'm starting to smell like a science-fiction convention. We need you to find out what he's doing with all those aerosol spray cans and put a stop to it. Good luck, Agent P.
♪ Doofenshmirtz walks to the diner! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I just called in a to-go order for Doofenshmirtz.
Waitress: Hey, Vic? You got an order for Doofyberg?
Doofenshmirtz: No, no, no, "Doofenshmirtz." Heinz Doofenshmirtz. Surely you've heard of me.
Waitress: Okay, order for Hans Doofensmit. Is that right?
Doofenshmirtz: No, "Doofenshmirtz." Doofen-- My brother is the mayor.
Waitress: Roger Doofenshmirtz is your brother?
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, Doofenshmirtz.
Waitress: And your name is?
Doofenshmirtz: Heinz Doofenshmirtz.
Waitress: Do we have an order for a Hans Doofenblatz?
Doofenshmirtz: (growls in anger) Mark my words. You will remember the name of Heinz Doofenshmirtz. Hm! (He walks out of the diner, but soon pops his head back in) Could I still get my whole wheat on rye?
Waitress: Sure, what's your name?
(Phineas and Ferb work on the kiddie rides)
Phineas: All done.
Isabella: Hey, Phineas. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Oh, hey, Isabella.
Buford: Hey, losers.
Phineas: Oh, hey, guys.
Buford: Don't tell me you're playing with that lame kiddie ride.
Phineas: We've tricked it out, and now it's pretty awesome.
Buford: I'll be the judge of that, step aside. This better be worth a quarter. (Sarcastically, as the ride shakes back and forth) Ooh. This is so exciting. Let me catch my breath.
Baljeet: What is not to like? It has what every kid loves: rocking back-and-forth, and slowness.
Phineas: May I suggest pressing that red button?
Buford: Ooh, can I? (He presses the red button, and the ride sprouts a rocket engine and takes off)
Phineas: So, what do you think?
Buford: (Screaming) I got it. Woo-hoo! This is awesome!
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus. How predictable. And by "predictable," I mean completely...dictable, I guess. Anyway...
(He pushes a button on a controller, which opens a trap door. Perry falls into a slicked-up pitfall trap then tries to escape.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, don't bother trying to escape. The walls are made of a super-slick alloy and treated with a few dozen coats of non-stick cooking spray. I'm sure you've noticed my impressive collection of aerosol spray cans. Every can of aerosol deodorant, hair spray and bug repellent from the Tri-State area. All mine. I'm tapping into their ozone-depleting propellants to fuel my latest evil scheme: The Aerosol-Propelled Ozone-Deplete-Inator! The citizens of Danville will definitely learn the name of Heinz Doofenshmirtz, when I spell it out in the sky in hundred-foot-tall letters made of atmosphere-destroying aerosol gasses, thereby depleting the protective ozone layer. And the resulting radiation will burn my name right through town! Then they'll remember. And if they don't, they can just look outside. (He cackles) I need a little drink of water after a tirade like that.
Candace: Ah, Glosstaculick! Now I can blow up a bounce house and my lips would still be shiny! (She starts to put on lipstick, but Buford zips past her, ruining it; now in busting mode) I bet Phineas and Ferb are behind this...
Buford: Wow, that was fun.
Candace: (walks up to them) I've got you this time! And to make sure this doesn't disappear, I'm going to sit here on the evidence 'till Mom comes back!
Buford: This is gonna be worth a quarter.
(Buford puts a quarter into the kiddie ride, and Candace gets launched away in the rocket)
Candace: Help me!
Phineas: Hang on, Candace, we're right behind you. Good thing we tricked out the other rides. Come on.
(Song: "Ain't No Kiddie Ride")
♪ Ooh ♪
Candace: Phineas!
Phineas: Hang on, Candace! We're coming!
♪ Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh ♪
♪ Well, the way things look can give the wrong impression ♪
(Candace screams)
♪ But if you adjust the torque ♪
♪ And check the valve compression ♪
♪ Well, you would be advised and realize ♪
♪ That the old cliché is true ♪
♪ You can't judge a book by the way it looks ♪
♪ Boy, the truth is up to you ♪
♪ Like Jekyll and Hyde appearances aside ♪
♪ Ain't no kiddie ride ♪
♪ Ooh ♪
♪ Ain't no kiddie ride ♪
♪ Yeah ♪
♪ Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh ♪
♪ Ain't no kiddie ride ♪
♪ Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh ♪
Phineas: Nuts. Lost her in the skyline. Isabella, we need you to get us an aerial view.
Isabella: Sure, Phineas. Whee!
(Candace blasts through a farm house)
Farmer: Well, what do you know? Nostradamus was right.
Isabella: Wow, she just flew through a barn and her lips are still shiny.
Baljeet: Oh, my friends. It appears that I am out of fuel.
Phineas: No, Baljeet. (On radio) Just put in another quarter.
Baljeet: But all I have is a dollar. (He notices that the machine takes bills) Oh. What do you know. (He tries several times to get the ride to take his dollar, but the machine won't) Hm. Oh, come on.
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, water. It's like drinking wet air. Now, Perry the Platypus, sit back and listen as the entire Tri-State Area screams the name Heinz Doofenshmirtz and never forgets it again! (Two aerosol cans fall into Perry's trap, and he uses them to propel his way out) Hold it right there, Perry the Platypus. (Doofenshmirtz tries to crush Perry with his giant mechanical hand, but Perry dodge it) Agh!
(Candace screams as her engine begins sputtering, and her rocket loses power, sending her falling into Danville Canyon)
Candace: Uh-oh. (She screams) Phineas, help, I'm falling!
Phineas: Just put in another quarter.
Candace: I don't have another quarter! (continues screaming)
(Song: "Phinedroids and Ferbots" Instrumental)
(Ferb dances to the music to earn a coin, which he shoots into Candace's rocket, giving it back its power)
Doofenshmirtz: (He laughs) Hey, nice move, Perry the Platypus, I got to "hand" it to you. Here, let me give you a "hand." Hey, hey. I'm gonna crush you with my big mechanical "hand." Ha! Well, I– I guess that one was just literal, but I've got you now.  (Candace bursts through Doofenshmirtz's lair, cutting off the giant hand) Wow. Nostradamus was right! (Perry uses the giant hand to smack Doofenshmirtz into the trap he was previously in) Ow! You know, I don't come to your house and– Wait, these don't have any chlorofluorocarbons in them at all. These aerosol cans are completely harmless! Wh-what was I thinking!? Curse you, Perry the Platypus!
Isabella: Okay, I got her. Yee-haw!
(Isabella lassos Candace's ride, bringing it under control)
Phineas: Good work, everybody. Let's bring it on back to the store.
Phineas: (At the store) (To Candace) Well, it looks like you made it back in one piece.
Candace: You guys are gonna be so busted when I show Mom what you did to those rides.
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
Repairman: All right, one side, kids. We're replacing these old rides with brand-new identical ones. With special emphasis on the identical. See you.
Phineas: Bye, now. Well, that was fun. Maybe tomorrow we can supe up our old bikes.
Buford: Lame.
Phineas: That's what you said about the kiddie rides.
Buford: And I was right, until I wasn't.
(They go off; Candace arrives with Linda right on schedule.)
Candace: (Talking fast) Here it is, Mom, I'll show you! If you'll give me a quarter, please? (She sits in the ride)
Linda: Aren't you a little old for kiddie rides?
Candace: No, no, I'm not! Check it out! (puts quarter in ride)
(The ride operates normally; long pause as Candace stares, stunned)
Linda: (dryly) Well...I guess it does have rocking back-and-forth and slowness?
(Candace does not say anything.)
(Back with Baljeet)
Baljeet: (After ironing his dollar bill) Okay, dollar, this is your last chance. (The ironing table goes off; Baljeet kicks ride in frustration, the ride goes off)

End credits
(Song: "Ain't No Kiddie Ride")
♪ Well, the way things look can give the wrong impression ♪
(Candace screams)
♪ But if you adjust the torque ♪
♪ And check the valve compression ♪
♪ Well, you would be advised and realize ♪
♪ That the old cliché is true ♪
♪ You can't judge a book by the way it looks ♪
♪ Boy, the truth is up to you ♪
(Screaming)
♪ Like Jekyll and Hyde appearances aside ♪
♪ Ain't no kiddie ride ♪



(Open up on Phineas and Ferb's bedroom.)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! We're going to the Space Adventure film festival! It's gonna be awe-soooooommmme!!!
♪ Space Adventure, it's an adventure in space! ♪
We can do better than that.
♪ Space Adventure, it's an adventure in space! ♪
(cut to Candace's room)
Candace: (growls, grunts) (hears Phineas continuing the music)
Phineas: ♪ It's an adventure in space! ♪
Candace: (wears headphones that make music)
(cut to Irving's house)
Irving: (from inside) According to my motion sensors, (cuts to him in his room at his computer, banging is heard outside) Phineas and Ferb are awake!
Albert: (bangs down Irving's door) What did you lock your door for, Ir-ving?
Irving: To keep you out, Al-bert!
Albert: Older brothers should have 24-hour access to younger brothers' rooms. It's a good thing I used an old secret military technique I taught myself. (walks over to the computer) Who are those dorks?
Irving: Phineas and Ferb are not dorks; They are the coolest exponents of awesome stupefaction in the universe!
Albert: Yeah. Just because you put it on... (Close up on the computer, it reads "Phineas and Ferb FANSITE") your fansite doesn't mean it's true. (Back to them) And could we talk about all these pictures?
(Camera widens to show pictures covering the walls)
Irving: What? Too obsessive.
Albert: Well, there is that, but I'm just saying your composition stinks. (looks at a picture) I can't even tell what this is a picture of.
Irving: (walks up) A solar-powered flock of mechanical hummingbirds. Phineas and Ferb built them.
Albert: Yeah, right. That's a hoax!
Irving: How dare you! (walks to another picture) I suppose this cold-fusion powered merry-go-round they built was a hoax, too!
Albert: I can tell a fake a mile away, little brother. They call me: "The Truth Detector".
Irving: It's NOT fake!! Phineas and Ferb really build these things! A-A-And I'll prove it to you!
Albert: Well, I have important older-brothery things to do right now. But if you give me the address, I'll meet you there at noon.
(cut to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. I've instituted a new short-order message technique. Listen carefully. (rings the bell) Doof is up, put a stop, curses on the side. Well, let's go, Agent P. My orders are backing up. Adam and Eve on a raft, rack em'.
Carl: (offscreen) Is that a mission, sir?
Major Monogram: No, it's my lunch.
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
Lawrence: (walks up) Hello, boys. Are you ready for your space thrills marathon?
Phineas: Dad, it's called Space Adventure. It's an adventure in space.
(cuts to theater, inside, Phineas and Ferb are watching, but Lawrence is sleeping)
Announcer: ♪ Space Adventure, it's an adventure in space! ♪
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard, Irving enters)
Irving: Hmm... (calling out) Phineas?! Ferb?!
Buford: (offscreen) They went to the movies.
(On the second half of this line, zoom out to show Buford carrying Baljeet next to him.)
Baljeet: No Phineas and Ferb today.
Irving: What am I gonna do?! Albert goes back to boarding school tomorrow! He'll think I'm a liar!
Baljeet: I have an idea. (Wipe to him later on) Phineas and Ferb made me this 3D projector. I can project one of their projects right into the yard here. Your brother will think they just built it.
Irving: And it wouldn't be lying because they did actually did build it. What have you got?
Baljeet: Well, let us see. (transitions to Eiffel Tower) Oh, this is from the time Phineas and Ferb built a full-scale replica of the Eiffel Tower. I will hide the projector in the bushes.
Irving: But look. Albert is impossible to fool. They call him "The Truth Detector".
Buford: I don't know, I'm convinced.
Irving: Uh-oh, and he's supposed to meet Phineas and Ferb too.
Baljeet: Too bad we are not Phineas and Ferb.
Irving: (gasps) I've got a crazy idea. Time for a makeover.
Buford and Baljeet: (squeal)
Buford: A manly one, right?
(cut to Doofenshmirtz's building)
Doofenshmirtz: Full steam ahead. Chugga-chugga, chugga-chugga, whoo hoo! Oh, hey, there. Is that the Doofenshmirtz choo-choo? No, it's not! You will all be late for your jobs and be fired. (laughs)
(Perry comes in)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Perry the Platypus. Hello. Have you come to see my new hobby? Scale model reproductions of actual railroads, train depots... look, even scale model litter. Shameful. My father bought one for me when I was just a little evil, but you know, he wouldn't let me play with it.
(Flashback)
Young Doofenshmirtz: Father, may I play with my trains now?
Doofenshmirtz's father: Nein!
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: Now that I'm old enough to buy my own, I'm disappointed by the shabby quality of the cheap model reproductions. Which is why I'm going to travel the globe and shrink the world's greatest architectural treasures. (breaks out of Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated) Just to put them in my train set, see? The Shrink-inator ray is for the shrinking, the cardboard box is for holding the shrunken treasures, and the bicarbonate of soda is for my motion sickness. First stop: Cairo, Egypt. (laughs) Wrong way.
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's house)
Baljeet: Ah, we are ready.
Irving: WHAT?! No! No no no, you can't BOTH be Phineas!
Baljeet: That is what I told him, but he would not listen.
Buford: Phineas gets all the lines!
Albert: Irving, are you here?
Irving: (gasps) He's here! Quick, put these on.
Albert: Irving! Irving, I thought you were pulling my leg, but this is remarkable.
Irving: Really, you're buying it?
Albert: What?
Irving: Nothing.
Albert: So, when am I gonna meet this Phineas and Ferb?
Irving: Oh, well, what do you know, they are here now.
Baljeet: (as Phineas) Hello, I think you know what we are doing today.
Buford: (as Ferb) 'Ello, I'm from England and I don't talk much.
Irving: Phineas, Ferb, this is my older brother Albert. Albert, meet Phineas and Ferb.
Albert: Hmm. Remember earlier when I accused you of pulling the wool over my eyes? Well, I take it back. It's a real pleasure to meet you boys.
Irving: What?
Albert: So, tell me about this Eiffel Tower.
Baljeet: (as Phineas) Um, it is big.
Buford: And Mexican.
Albert: I thought it was French. What do you know. Learn something new every day.
Irving: Are you serious?
Albert: I would be honored to watch the great Phineas and Ferb at work. Would you mind building something?
Baljeet: (as Phineas) Sure.
Irving: No! I mean... I know they would love to. Albert?
Albert: Shh, they're working.
Isabella: Hi Phineas. Hi... Ferb? Okay, what'cha doin'?
Irving: (whispers to Isabella)
Isabella: Oh, okay. What'cha doin'?
Albert: They're building something live. In person.
(tranquil theme plays)
Baljeet: (as Phineas) Nice.
Albert: The simplicity of the design enhances its innovation.
Irving: Really? The simplicity of the design? Okay.
(cut to Doofenshmirtz and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: First stop on our shopping spree. You know, I've always dug the Sphinx. I mean, what is it? A man? A cat? A cat-man? It doesn't matter. And gotcha. Now I switch on my Shrink-inator ray and... it's mine now. There you are. Perfect. Look at-- look at the detail. Well, you know the saying: "Honk if you love evil"! (laughs, flies off)
(Cut to Candace's room, Candace is listening to another song on her headphones. She crosses to the window.)
Candace: Oooooh, what are those two up to now? (Cuts to her perspective out the window.) Okay, Phineas and Ferb are standing in the yard with two nerds, Isabella, and the Eiffel Tower. (Cut back to her.) That's nothing but trouble! Wait a sec... (She gets out binoculars, cut to her view from them.) Those aren't my brothers. (Zoom in on Buford and Baljeet) What?! Is that Buford and Baljeet?! (Cut back to her, she gets out her phone and dials it.) Oh, I am so calling Mom! (Stops) Hold on. If those aren't my brothers, why am I calling my mom? Why not call Buford and Baljeet's moms? That satisfies the Mom response, and the bust urge! I'll call that dork Irving's mom, too. And what the heck? Why leave my mom out of the party? (She laughs, plays another song on her headphones and dials numbers, humming.) Information, please. (Hums more.)
(cut to Doofenshmirtz and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, so we have the Great Wall of China, oh, excuse me, I mean the Great Small of China, and the, uh-- The Shrinx (Sphinx), and the Teeny Tower of Pisa (Leaning Tower of Pisa), and the Roman Coliseum-- The Coliseum-- Coli-- I have to think about that one. No matter. Because last but not least, the Taj Ma-Small (Taj Mahal). Ha-ha, oh, that's a good one. Back to the Tri-State Area and let the fun begin.
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
Albert: You guys are amazing. What else can you do?
Buford: (as Ferb) Um, I can turn my head completely around.
Albert: Wow. I wish I was that double-jointed.
Irving: Really?
Albert: Really. Well, it's been a real pleasure and an honor to meet you guys. Come on, Irving, let's go.
Buford: I can't believe we tricked the un-trickable.
Irving: I am at a loss for words, dude.
(cut to Perry and Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, let's see, the uh-- the Roman Coliseum. The, uh, No-Man-Can-See-'Em-Because-It's-So-Tiny. No, that's not a good-- (Perry hits him) Ah!
(cut to Albert and Irving walking)
Albert: That was really, really amazing.
Irving: Oh, really?
Albert That's right.
Irving: So your super-senses weren't tingling when, oh, I don't know, Ferb had eyes in his mouth?! Didn't that give you a moment of pause?! A scintilla of doubt?!
Albert: What are you talking about?
Irving: I can't believe how gullible you are. That wasn't the real Phineas and Ferb.
Albert: Well, of course it was. I saw their pictures on your wall.
Irving: That was two kids in costume and that Eiffel Tower was a hologram, Mr. "Ta-Ruth Detector".
Albert: Sorry, little bro. There was no way that was a hologram.
Irving: Oh, yeah? Well, let's go back and I'll show you.
Albert: Yeah, let's do that.
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
Baljeet: What did you think, Isabella? Was I a convincing Phineas?
Isabella: No. No you weren't.
Buford: Yeah, but totally nailed Ferb.
Baljeet: Oh, I almost forgot.
(cut to Doofenshmirtz and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, w-w-what are you doing with that? Oh, no, my-my Eiffel Tower! Gotcha. Uh, hey, Perry the Platypus, I saved the Trifle Tower. (Eiffel Tower) No, Perry the Platypus, don't zap it again. It will make it grow. (cries out) Oh, no, I'm shrunk.
(cut to Buford, Baljeet, and Isabella when the Eiffel Tower falls)
Baljeet: What was that?
Buford: I think it was my stomach. I told you, I'm starving.
Irving: See it and believe it, brother. See-- I can run right through-- (bangs into the tower) it. But it was-- but I had you.
Albert: Consider this a lesson learned, Irving.
Irving: (cries out)
Albert: (drags Irving away) No one pulls the wool over the eyes of The Truth Detector!
(Cuts to the street outside the backyard, Linda's car pulls up, followed by Mrs. Du Bois pulling up in the background. Biffany and Mrs. Tjinder walk up the sidewalk, Linda gets out of her car.)
Baljeet's mom: Hello, Linda.
Linda: Hi, ladies.
(Close up, Biffany and Mrs. Tjinder walk up to Linda.)
Baljeet's mom: I got a call from Candace...
Buford's mom: ...Who said something about our sons and busting!
Irving's mom: (Walks up) Are Irving and Albert okay?
Candace: (Walking out the front door) Hello, ladies! (Runs up to them, pushes Linda) Come on, come on, moms! (She drags Biffany offscreen, Mrs. Tjinder and Mrs. Du Bois follow.) I can't wait to see the looks on your faces when you see the spectacle that's in the backyard, come on!
(cut to Doofenshmirtz and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: All right, put up your dukes! Wait-- Wait-- what are you doing?! (Perry puts him in his hat.) Hey, this place is nicer than my first apartment.
(Perry zaps the Eiffel Tower and pulls it up, just before Phineas and Ferb walk in the backyard.)
Phineas: ♪ Space Adventure, an adventure in... ♪ Know what, Ferb?
Ferb: We're over it.
Phineas: Yes. Yes we are.
(Cuts to the gate)
Candace: Come on, moms! (Enters backyard) A-ha! (Pause, Linda and the other moms come by in the background.) Huh?!
Phineas: Hey Candace, you built this? Nice to see you're starting to take an interest.
Candace: What?!! No-no-no-no-no, where's the Eiffel Tower? (runs up to them and feels around) Oh, wait. I've seen this, it's invisible! I've just got to find it! (Cuts to a bored Linda and the surprised mothers, she continues offscreen.) It has to be around here somewhere!
Lawrence: (walks up) ♪ Space Adventure. ♪ So, what did I miss?
(Cut to a stunned Phineas and Ferb.)
Candace: (offscreen) And look! (Runs up) Here are Buford and Baljeet, your sons being bad! (Stretches Ferb's head) They're in disguises! Uh, really good disguises! (Grunts while stretching Phineas' head, chuckles deadpanned) It'll come off in a second.
(Cut back to the moms.)
Baljeet's mom: Does this happen often?
Linda: (With disdain) Yes, yes it does. Welcome to my world. How about a cup of tea? (She walks offscreen, Lawrence and the moms follow her.)
Buford's mom: I hope you got cookies!
Linda: (offscreen) Of course, Biffany.
(cut to Doofenshmirtz and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: So, let me guess, Mr. Goody-Two-Shoes, we're going to return everything I shrank, right? Huh, even the Roman Small-iseum? Hey, look, I finally figured that one out, huh? Ow! Oh, curse you, Perry the Platypus!



(Scene opens up with Candace pressing her face against a window, waiting for her mother's arrival)
Candace: (chaotic laugh) Ooooooh, you are so busted this time! (laughs) ♪ Busted, busted, busted, busted, tra-la-la, hey, hey! ♪ (car horn) Huh? Mom!!
(Candace runs to the car)
Candace: (giggles) Mom, Mom, Mom! (opens car door)
Linda: Hi, honey.
Candace: (grabs Linda's arm with eyes closed) Wait til you see what Phineas and Ferb are up to now!
(Candace opens the gate)
Candace: (laughs) See?!?...What?
(her perspective, all that's left are Phineas and Ferb under the tree)
Phineas: Hey Mom, hey Candace.
Candace: But, but but -- !
Linda: (with disdain) I'm going to go check on my roast.
Candace: URRRRRGH! (ties hair into bow) But, but, but, but, but, but, but, but...but...but...but...but...but...
(Scene shifts to night, then back to the following day)
Buford: (as he walks by a dismayed Candace) You've inspired me; I'm growing out my bangs.
Baljeet: (as he also walks by) Namaste, compadres.
Candace: (untying her hair) Ohhhhh, no matter what I try, I just can't do it! It's impossible!
Isabella: The impossible is possible! With a little teamwork. That's what the Fireside Girls say.
Candace: Teamwork?
Isabella: Sure! How do you think I got this mountain-moving patch?
Candace: (pause) By...mindlessly repeating a flawed busting strategy?
Isabella: Noooo, through teamwork! See that mountain over there? It used to be over there. With a little teamwork, you can do anything.
Candace: Teamwork. Teamwork! (dials phone) Stacy? I know what we're gonna do today.
Baljeet: Thank you for letting me choose today's activity.
Phineas: No worries, Baljeet.
Buford: It is Nerd Awareness Week.
Baljeet: It is called "spinning tops."
Buford: LAME!
Baljeet: Of DOOM!
Buford: Alright I'll give it a shot.
(Later...)
Baljeet: Okay, everyone! Here is how you play: You hold your top...and then...you SPIN!
(Everyone spins their tops, they spin for a short moment and drop)
Isabella: So then, what?
Baljeet: YOU DO IT AGAIN! AH-HA-HA-HA! Ah. It is lame, isn't it?
Phineas: Not at all, Baljeet. It just needs a little more oomph.
Baljeet: I was hoping you would say that!
Phineas: Anybody notice a distinct lack of egg-laying mammals in the backyard? Baljeet, would you do the honors?
Baljeet: Boy howdy! Aham. Ah...

(Cut to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Where's Perry? Oh, there you are. Didn't uh...see ya...sittin' there. Anyway -- our sources tell us that Doofenshmirtz is up to something and if we're gonna put a stop to it, we'll need a little of that old egg-laying mammalian magic.
(Perry disappears)
Major Monogram: (gasp) Why how did -- oh, why that little scamp?
(Perry leaves)

Candace: Alright, ladies. I've got a crew, I've got a plan, I wanna bust. Questions? (Stacy raises her hand) Stacy?
Stacy: Do you have this jumpsuit in pink? Cause I'm not really a tangerine kind of gal.
Candace: (eye twitches) WHY IS EVERYTHING SO DIFFICULT?!? (sobs)
Jenny: Maybe if we help her bust her brothers, she'll be done with all this busting stuff for good.
Stacy: You're absolutely right, Jenny. Hey, Candace?
Candace: Uh...
Stacy: I was just kidding about the color, I love orange.
Jenny: And I'm all about persimmon. So, what do we do next?
Candace: You've heard of Boot Camp? Well, ladies, welcome to Bust Camp!
(Song: Bust Your Brothers)
♪ Oh yeah! ♪
Stacy: Mom.
♪ You've got to bust your brothers ♪
♪ Make sure that there's no way around it! ♪
♪ You got to bust your brothers ♪
♪ And don't you stop until they're grounded. ♪
♪ Show your mom what they've been doing, ♪
♪ The trouble they've been brewing, ♪
♪ You know these two are due, and how! ♪
♪ You got to bust your brothers ♪
♪ You've got to bust your brothers now! ♪

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Norm, hurry up with that coffee! I still got that terrible morning taste in my mouth. (smacks lips)
Norm: Coming right up, sir! Scalding hot, just the way you -- (trips on rug, spills coffee) Whoopsie daisy!
Doofenshmirtz: AAAAAAAAHHHH!!! Ow! I know I didn't make you that smart, but you can't even walk straight? (doorbell rings)
Norm: I'll get it. (opens door, delivery guy is there) You'll be so delighted when your package arrives in six-to-eight weeks.
(Cut to Doof drying himself off.)
Doofenshmirtz: My new nemesis toy! Go run my bubble bath while I open it. I wonder which one it is. (opens it) Oh, not another platypus. I was hoping for something more like Manny the Mongoose or something. Hey, let's see if it lays eggs. (The "platypus toy" kicks him.) PERRY THE PLATYPUS?!?! Say hello to my little friend! (He pushes a button on his watch, and an inator rolls in.) My new Straitjacket-inator! Ha ha! it was tailor-made just for you by my other little friend. (Whip pan to reveal a small robot.) It may be small, but it's stronger and smarter than Norm and it's so much more efficient.
(Cut to Norm blowing bubbles into the bath.)
Norm: 847...848...
(Cut to the garage. Candace is standing in front of a blackboard.)
Candace: Listen up, team, I'll be at the front of the house tracking Mom on my GPS device.  (Cut to Stacy and Jenny asleep.) Jenny, (Jenny wakes up.) you'll guard the gate. See to it that Phineas and Ferb stay in the hot zone. Stacy, (Stacy wakes up.) you make sure whatever they built stays there 'til Mom comes home. To achieve that goal, we use the following busting jargon: When Mom comes home, the cue is "The condor is in the nest." When the boys are in prime busting position, it's "The peas are in the pod." And if what they have built somehow disappears, I want you to scream, "The banana has split!" Got it? (Stacy and Jenny salute.) Good. Now, in the event that any of us should be captured— (alarm blares) That's the Mom Signal! Ladies, it's go time! So move it, move it, move it!
(The Phineas and Ferb-busters take off.)
Stacy: The pea is in the pod!
Jenny: The condor is in the nest!
Candace: Mom! Mom! Phineas and Ferb have built outer space in our backyard! (Cut to reveal crudely drawn cardboard cutouts of Phineas and Ferb and the "project". Cut back to Candace to reveal "Linda" is just a dummy.) Nice drill, ladies. I'm-a lovin' teamwork!
Phineas: Hey, Candace, nice us's! When did you make those?
(beat)
Candace: (wheeling the dummy out) Pay no attention to them, "Mom".
(Cut back to Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, this new robot of mine is much more evil than Norm. Course, it can't talk, but that can be a good thing. And it even has a convenient blender attachment. (The robot's dome opens and produces a smoothie.) Next, I'm thinking of a platypus purée. (cut to Norm's room) This new model requires so little energy to run it really makes clumsy old Norm quite obsolete. (Norm peaks out from behind the door.)
Norm: Now I know I have a heart, because it's breaking.
(The "Norm" sign falls off to reveal the word "Closet" behind it.)
(Cut back to the backyard.)
Phineas: We're ready to go. You sure you don't want one, Buford?
Buford: Naw, I still say it's lame.
Phineas: Fair enough. Canopies down, everybody.
Isabella: Ready!
Baljeet: (the canopy closes on his fingers) Ah! (he reopens it and closes it properly) Ready.
Phineas: Okay, Ferb, bring out the radiant power source.
(Ferb gives a thumbs up and climbs out of his top.)
Isabella: What's that?
Phineas: You can't plug the tops in or the cords would get all wrapped up. So we created a power source that will radiate energy across the yard to anything that needs it. (Ferb activates the power source and climbs back into his top.) Okay, everybody, now, the secret to a good top spin, if I can call it that—
(Baljeet bumps into him laughing.)
Phineas: Ha, good one, Baljeet!
Baljeet: This is almost as fun—
Isabella: (bumps Baljeet) I'm going for my bumper patc— (gets bumped by Ferb)
(Overhead camera shot of the gang in the tops as they laugh.)
(Cut to Candace looking on her GPS device.)
Candace: Code red, busters! The condor is on the wing! I want feet on the ground! It's real this time!
Stacy: Moving in! (swings down from the top of the tree)
Jenny: Rock and roll!
(Cut to Buford.)
Buford: Ah, still lame. (walks to the power source) Maybe I can liven things up a bit.
(He changes the dial into the danger zone. A huge blast emerges from the source.  The blast effects not only the tops but Stacy and Jenny's headsets, which explode.)
Stacy: What's going on?! Why are they going so fast?!
(Cut to downtown Danville. The blast effects the entire town, which causes a car to drive off without its driver, an electric razor to shave its user bald, and a cymbal banging monkey to make a baby cry.  Cut to D.E.I.  The blast effects the building.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, look at him, he's— He's positively shaking with anticipation at the thought of helping me take over the Tri-State Area. He's— (The robot suddenly begins to transform and grow.) Hoo-hoo-hoo! I-I didn't even know he could do that, whatever it is. Wow! I'm a better evil scientist than I thought!
Robot: Doofenshmirtz, your pathetic schemes have all failed! Step aside and let the true master take over!
Doofenshmirtz: (gasps) He can talk! (gets blasted by the robot) And shoot, too! Ow! Save me! Save me, Perry the Platypus! AAAAAHHH!
(Perry manages to escape from his straitjacket.  He fires a grappling hook from his wristwatch and it latches onto the robot.  He swings onto the robot's arm and gets into a fighting position.)
Robot: Perry the Platypus, my fight is with Doofenshmirtz, not you.  (He flicks Perry off and Perry flings out of the building.)
(Cut to outside. Perry's wristwatch communicator beeps.)
Major Monogram: Agent P, an unusual power wave has struck the city with potentially disastrous consequences. Forget Doofenshmirtz, find the source of that power wave, and dismantle it.
♪ Perry! ♪
(Perry launches his hang-glider.)
(Cut back to the timid Doof and the giant robot.)
Robot: Prepare to meet your maker, maker! (He powers up his hand and blasts, but misses when Doof trips.)
Doofenshmirtz: I'm feeling such an odd mixture of pride and mortal terror.
(The robot opens his dome and a giant spinning blade emerges from it. Cut to outside D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Mostly terror! Mostly terror!
(Cut to the house.)
Candace: The condor is in the nest! Let's go, condor!
Linda: Candace, what is going on?
Candace: You'll see! Just wait.
Linda: So, I'm guessing your brothers are doing something wildly dangerous?
Candace: Uh...
Linda: Well, I've got a few seconds to kill before my bladder bursts like a water balloon, so let's get this over with. (walks in the direction of the backyard, but Candace stops her)
Candace: No! Teamwork! I mean, we've got to wait for the signal! Any second now.  Come on, girls, give me the code!
(Cut to the backyard.)
Stacy: Without the headsets, how can we signal Candace?!
Jenny: I don't know!
Stacy: How can she not hear this racket?!
(Cut back to Linda.)
Linda: That's quite a racket back there. Are you sure you don't want me to take a look?
Candace: No way! Not until I get the signal.
(Tops are heard crashing.)
(Cut back to Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: Norm! Norm, help me, I'm gonna be puréed!
Norm: Sorry, sir, no can do. I'm bringing coffee to the new boss.
Robot: Sounds delicious. Just a moment.
Doofenshmirtz: AAAh! I don't want to be a smoothie!
Norm: Here you go, sir. Just the way you— ("accidentally" throws the coffee mug) Whoopsie-daisy.
(The coffee splashes onto the robot's screen causing it to electrocute. Doof falls into the arms of Norm.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, it's lucky for me you tripped on that rug again.
Norm: There was no rug, sir.
(Cut to reveal a blank shiny space where the rug should be.)
Doofenshmirtz: Awww, thank you, Norm. I shouldn't have been so hard on you, but how come you were not affected by that strange energy thingy?
Norm: (puts Doof down) Don't you remember? I run on squirrel power! (opens his cavity to reveal a squirrel running on a wheel)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow! I should really read your operation manual.
(Cut back to Linda and Candace)
Candace: Wait for the signal. Wait for it.
(Cut to the backyard.)
Phineas: This is getting a little uncomfortable. Eject, everybody! (He ejects from his top.)
(Cut to Baljeet, who attempts to eject, but his canopy is still closed. He does it successfully, as do Isabella and Ferb.  They land under the tree.  The tops fly away from the backyard.  Perry arrives to taken the switch out of the power source.)
Jenny: I lied about the persimmon.
(Cut back to Linda and Candace)
Linda: Alright, Candace, enough's enough!
Candace: No! (grabs her mother, on her headset) Is the pea in the pod?! Is the pea in the pod??! What's up with the pea?!?! (They finally get into the backyard.) Not again!
Linda: Hey, kids. So what was all the big racket back here?
Phineas: We were just playing with our tops.
Linda: Oh.




Jenny: Phineas and Ferb...were all spinning around and around(?)


Stacy: And they were running so fast...And it flew away into the clouds!


Jenny and Stacy: Giant tops of doom!
Buford: (offscreen) LAME!
Linda: You girls are beginning to sound a lot like Candace.




Jenny: They were huge!


Stacy: And suddenly—


Candace: Oh, will you two give it up already?
Jenny: But you said to wait until she offers pie.
Linda: Ooh! Good idea! Who wants pie?
Jenny: (raises hand) Me!
Stacy: (raises hand) Me!
Candace: (raises hand slightly) Me.
Phineas and the Gang: Us!
Perry: (chatters)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry! (He pets Perry and his leg kicks.)

End credits
♪ Oh yeah! ♪
Stacy: Mom.
♪ You've got to bust your brothers ♪
♪ Make sure that there's no way around it! ♪
♪ You got to bust your brothers ♪
♪ And don't you stop until they're grounded. ♪
♪ Show your mom what they've been doing, ♪
♪ The trouble they've been brewing, ♪
♪ You know these two are due, and how! ♪
♪ You got to bust your brothers ♪
♪ You've got to bust your brothers now! ♪



(Scene opens up with the camera zooming into the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Phineas: Ferb, I think we've outdid ourselves today; The ultimate frozen yogurt machine. We have enough frozen yogurt to last the entire summer.
(A little orange lizard peers behind the house.)
Phineas: Huh. (The lizard jumps ahead.) Check that out, Ferb. Hey, there little guy. You want some frozen yogurt? (The lizard flinches.) Yeah, sorry. We don't have mushroom and larvae flavored.
(Ferb pulls some mushrooms out of the ground. He clicks his tongue and motions for the lizard to come to him. The lizard smiles as Ferb gives him the mushrooms, which he happily eats and jumps onto Ferb's shoulder and cuddles his neck.)
Phineas: I think he likes you, Ferb!
Isabella: Hey, guys! What'cha doin'?
(The lizard camouflages itself.)
Phineas: Cool, he disappeared! We found this lizard.
Isabella: Hey, I've seen one of these before. According to the Fireside Girls' Manual, that lizard is a North American chameleon.
Phineas: Then we'll name him Steve.
Isabella: O...kay....why Steve?
Phineas: 'Cause he looks like a Steve.
Isabella: Huh. Can't argue with logic like that.
(Cut to Candace walking in through the gate on her phone.)
Candace: So I'll see you after you teach your guitar lessons.
(Cut to Jeremy on the other end in his bedroom packing up his guitar.)
Jeremy: Yeah, I only have two appointments today.
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: "Appointments." Well, all right, Dr. Six-Strings. Good luck with your "patients". (hangs up and giggles) "Dr. Six-Strings." Now that's banter. Heh. (gasps as she sees the giant frozen yogurt machine) Aha! (Steve disappears again) I finally caught you guys! That thing's not going anywhere! You guys are so busted this time! (runs out)
(Steve reappears as his stomach grumbles.)
Phineas: Looks like he's still hungry. Don't worry, little guy. We'll come back with some food. (Ferb puts Steve on the grass and pats him on the head.) I think Mom just stocked up the fridge.
Isabella: I bet Perry's gonna love Steve. Hey, where is Perry?
(Cut to Agent P already in his lair.)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P. Doofenshmirtz has been stocking up a lot of high-end sound equipment and musical instruments. In fact, he jut outbid me on this sweet vintage solid-body maple-top guitar.
Carl: (offscreen) Ouch! You totally got sniped!
Major Monogram: Carl! Anyway, we need you to find out what he's up to and put a stop to it. (Perry salutes) Good luck, Agent P. (The chopper comes out of his seat and he flies away.)
(Cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
(Cut to Doof's lab. A knock is heard at the door and he answers. Jeremy appears with his guitar.)
Jeremy: Hi, Mr. Doofenshmirtz.
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, actually, it's Dr. Doofenshmirtz. But, y'know, whatever.
Jeremy: (walks in) Are you ready for your first lesson?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, yes, yes. Please come in. I have a very special melody that I'd like to learn how to perpetrate—I mean play. (He plays all open strings on the guitar as his daughter walks into the room.)
Vanessa: Hey, Dad. I'm headed out to the— (sees Jeremy) Oh, a guitar player, huh?
Jeremy: Yup.
Vanessa: So, uh, do you know anything by the Scraping Fangs?
Jeremy: Nah. Not really into the heavy stuff.
Vanessa: (disappointed) I'm outta here.
Doofenshmirtz: (examining his sheet music) Ach! Ach! It's so hard to see all these little notes. D-Do me a favor and flick on that light switch.
(Jeremy puts his guitar down and walks over to the light switch. He flicks it on, but a green ray somehow activates and hits Steve.)
Doofenshmirtz: No no no no no. No, this. (showing a lever on the floor) This is the light switch! Ugh! (He pulls the lever) I tried to make it as obvious as possible.
Jeremy: (pointing out the window) But what was that?
Doofenshmirtz: That was just my prototype Gigantinator ray. It's n-nothing to be concerned about.
(Cut back to the backyard where Steve grows in size. When he is humongous, he begins stomping around crushing the frozen yogurt machine. Candace pulls her mother into the backyard as usual.)
Candace: Mom, Mom, I finally caught them! (eyes closed) Ta.... (sees there's nothing there) Dah... AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHH!!!!!
(Candaces screaming causes Steve to disappear again. He then reappears, but not before shaking the crushed frozen yogurt machine off his foot.)
Linda: Maybe you should take it easy today and run some errands with me.
Candace: But but but—
(Linda walks Candace with her.)
Phineas: Steve's sure gonna love these mushrooms. (realizes he's not there) Steve, where are you? Steve!
Isabella: (looking down) Uh... (she kneels down and picks up a pebble) Guys, look at where you're standing.
Phineas: Whoa! It's a huge footprint.
Isabella: A huge chameleon footprint.
Phineas: Do you realize what this means? Some giant chameleon took Steve!
Isabella: (looking over the fence) The rest of the tracks lead into the city.
Phineas: We're coming to save you, Steve!
(Cut back to D.E.I. where we hear a slow guitar melody.)
Doofenshmirtz: How'm I doing? I rock, right?
Jeremy: Um...heh. What's so special about this freaky guitar solo?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, it all started at the...
(Flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) PYRAMIDS OF EGYPT! I traveled there to, you know, discover the hidden secrets of the PYRAMIDS OF EGYPT! And then it hit me! The answer to my quest was staring me in the face. Hidden in those hieroglyphics was a seemingly random series of musical notes. You see, the PYRAMIDS OF EGYPT! were built with the help of alien intelligence. The Egyptians learned how to play a cryptic guitar solo that would summon an alien armada to help them perform feats of mind-blowing power.
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: That mystical melody is now in my very hands. And once I learn to play it, I can summon the aliens to me and I will become overlord of the TRI-STATE AREAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!
Jeremy: Have you considered switching to decaf?
Doofenshmirtz: I'm sorry, I didn't mean to talk all through our lesson time.
Jeremy: Hey, I'm charging by the hour, so knock yourself out.
(Perry flies by in the background.)
Doofenshmirtz: It's just I'm used to doing all the talking with my nemesis. (Perry drops off the chair.) He's a platypus.
Jeremy: Hey, my friends have a pet platypus.
(Zoom in on Perry as he realizes who is with Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: Is he fierce, cunning, and good with a grappling hook?
Jeremy: Oh, no. Their platypus doesn't do much. (Perry jumps out of the building and takes a plunger and sticks it onto the bottom of the "nose" of the building.) Well, let's take another shot at learning this solo. (Doof plays the riff better.) Hey, doc, not bad. I think you might be getting it!
(Cut to another part of Danville where Phineas, Ferb and Isabella follow the giant footprints.)
Phineas: Hey, the tracks just stop. What's casting this big shadow?
(Steve appears as the others gasp.)
Phineas and Isbaella: Whoa! (They run away but Ferb stays put.)
Phineas: Ferb, what are you doing? Wait a minute. (Ferb opens the bag he's holding and takes out a mushroom, which Steve eats.) It's just Steve! Wow! How did he turn into a dinosaur?
Isabella: Actually, it's just a giant chameleon.
Phineas: But "dinosaur" sounds cooler.
(Cut to Candace waiting in the station wagon.)
Candace: Stupid errands. (The car shakes.) Huh? (A la that famous dinosaur movie, Candace looks in the side-view mirror and sees Steve with the others.) What? AAAAAAAAAAAAHHH!!!
(Steve whimpers and disappears.)
Phineas: I get it. The sound of Candace's scream freaks him out.
(Candace honks the horn. Linda returns with some bags.)
Linda: What's wrong, Candace?
Candace: (coming out of the car and grabbing her mother again) Mom Mom Mom! Dinosaur! Follow me! Ha ha, ha, ha, the boys are so busted this -- Hey, where'd it go?
Linda: Hi, boys. What are you doing here?
Phineas: Looking for Steve, our dinosaur. Can we keep him?
Linda: Keep what?
Phineas: Steve.
(Candace opens a manhole looking for the big lizard.)
Linda: Is he invisible?
Phineas: Yes. Yes, he is.
Linda: Oh, cute. Alright, Candace, let's go home.
Candace: Invisible friends? Uh, pfft! I'm so getting to the bottom of this.
Phineas: It's okay, Steve. Candace is gone. (Steve reappears.)
(Candace opens the door of the car, but the alarm blares causing Steve to disappear and stomp off again.)
Phineas: Steve, wait! Steve!
(Cut back to D.E.I. Perry's wrist communicator beeps.)
Major Monogram: Sorry to bother you, Agent P. We just wanted to let you know we'd be temporarily unavailable. Seems there's a giant dinosaur running amok downtown and Carl wants to go check it out. (Carl leans into the frame wearing a "I Heart Dinosaurs" baseball cap.)
(Doof's guitar is heard playing the riff up to speed.)
Jeremy: (offscreen) Well, I think you've got it.
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Ah, great! Can you give me a hand moving my amplifinator out onto the porch?
Jeremy: Your what?
Doofenshmirtz: It's my omni-directional amplifinator. It will blast my scorching guitar licks in all directions, ripping through the vacuum of space to summon the alien armada that will help me conquer the TRI-STATE AREAAAAAAAA!!! I don't know why I always say that loud.
(Cut to Steve rampaging his way through Danville. Carl and Monogram are observing it, while Carl snaps photos.)
Carl: This is so cool!
Major Monogram: I'd try to recruit him but I don't think we have a hat that big.
(Cut to Phineas, Ferb and Isabella)
Phineas and Isabella: Steve? Steve, where are you?
Isabella: There's no way we can catch him. He moves too fast. Maybe we should just give up.
Ferb: Give up?!? Give up?!? The day may come when we'll give up on fruitless searches after a mere eleven minutes, but that day is not today! The day may come when our favorite reptile may be lost from our memories and his enduring love of mushrooms forgotten, but that day is not today! (At this point, several passersby gather around to hear this speech.) Today we search! We will search for him in the streets, we will search for him in the trenches, we will search for him in the alleys and the mini-malls and the cul-de-sacs of this fair land. We'll search for him in the multilevel car parks and municipal recreational facilities. (A truck labeled British Imports with a Union Jack on it drives up behind him, giving the appropriate patriotic feel.) And we few. We happy few. We small band of brothers — and girl from across the street. We shall not cease 'til he is found!
All: Yaaaaaaay!!!!
Policeman: We'll help ya find your friend! What does he look like?
Phineas: He's a giant lizard about 40 feet tall.
Man: ...Oh. You could have mentioned that up front.
(Everyone leaves.)
Man 2: Yeah, count me out.
Man 3: You're on your own.
Isabella: Steve! Steve, where are you?!
(Cut back to D.E.I. where Doof is shredding it.)
Jeremy: You're really rockin' now!
Doofenshmirtz: The spaceships should be here any minute. And then, it will be time to pump up the volume!
(The amplifinator raises up on a bar.)
Jeremy: (looks at his watch) Well, that's the hour. I'm gonna pack up my gear. I got another lesson across town.
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, but the aliens are on their way.
Jeremy: (offscreen) Okay. Tell them I said hi.
Doofenshmirtz: They're almost here. Oh, look, here they come! Perfect! The crescendo of all my— (Perry finally arrives on cue) Ah, Perry the Platypus. You don't stand a chance against my awesome heavy metal gear! (He presses a wawa pedal and the amp next to him releases a trap.) Ha ha! Get it? Get it? Heavy metal. Like it's...? Ah.
(Cut back to the search party.)
Phineas and Isabella: Steve?
Steve 1: Yes?
Phineas: Sorry. Wrong Steve.
Phineas and Isabella: Steve, where are you?!
Steve 2: (behind a newsstand) Right here. How can I help ya?
Phineas: Uh, I don't think you're the Steve we're looking for.
Steve 2: You might wanna check at the Steve Convention.
(Scene flips to the Steve Convention where a bunch of Steves are gathered outside.)
Steve 3: Hey, Steve!
Steve 4: Cool name, Steve!
Steve 5: Hey, Steve-a-rino!
Phineas: Hmm... (looks one way and smiles) Steve!
All Steves: What?
Phineas: No, no, not you. That Steve.
Steve 6: Aaah! Steve is a giant monstrous dinosaur!
(All the Steves run away from Steve the lizard.)
Phineas: Huh, I guess they don't like chameleons. Nice to see you again, Steve old boy. (The guitar riff is heard in the distance. Steve looks at it and sees that the amplifinator looks like a giant mushroom. He tramples over to the "mushroom".)
Phineas: No, wait! Come back!
(They chase after him.)
(Cut to Doof and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: Nothing can stop me now! My alien friends, I command you to— (Steve's monstrous hand grabs the "mushroom".) No! Oh, stop! Aaah! (Perry comes out of his trap) This is not working the way it did on paper!
(Perry flips the sheet music upside down and takes the guitar and strums. He plays the guitar behind his head and plays the riff in reverse. Steve covers his ears. The saucers all fly away. Steve eats the amplifinator and Perry jumps on him.) Curse you, (He Townsends the guitar) Perry the Platypus!
(Jeremy returns)
Jeremy: Um, do you wanna pay by cash or check?
Doofenshmirtz: Maybe I could trade you for some evil lessons?
Jeremy: I'll take cash.
(Cut to Steve with Perry on his tail. Steve bends down to eat more mushrooms from Ferb's hand. The gang climb onto his head. He stands up and Perry slides on his tail and the gang slide over his head.)
Phineas and Isabella: Whoa! Woohoo!
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry! Alright, Steve, let's go home.
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Candace: (offscreen) Mom thinks I'm imagining the whole thing! (Cut to Candace's bedroom where she is on the phone and holding a glass of water.) And I know Phineas and Ferb are behind this. (She sets the glass down. It begins to shake just like in the movie.) Huh? (Steve's giant eye appears in the window behind her. She runs downstairs.) MOOOOOOOOOOMMMMMMM!!!
(Cut to outside. Steve leans forward and the gang get off.)
Phineas: Thanks, Steve. (Steve's stomach growls again)
Isabella: Sounds like he's still hungry.
(Steve whimpers.)
Phineas: Don't worry, big guy. We'll be right back with some food.
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, what's the point? I'm just going to sit here in the dark and rethink my life. (He flicks the "light switch" off and the Gigantinator reactivates.) Whoops, heh-heh. Wrong switcher. Y'know, I—I can see how that would be confusing.
(Cut back to the Flynn-Fletcher house where Steve is zapped again and shrinks back down to his original size.)
Candace: (zipping out the door with her mother) Look, Mom! See it?! Look at the gigantic dinosaur!
Linda: (looks down at Steve) Uh-huh, don't you think that's a bit of an exaggeration?
Candace: But but but... (sadly walks away)
Phineas: (coming out carrying a giant bag of mushrooms with Ferb) Hi, Mom! Hey, looks like Steve's looking like his old self again.
Linda: So this is your new pet dinosaur?
Phineas: Well, it's actually a chameleon. You said we could keep him, right?
Linda: Of course. I'm sure he'll blend right in. (Steve goes into Ferb's hand and disappears again.)
(Cut to Jeremy in the OWCA headquarters with Major Monogram.)
Jeremy: Okay, Mr. Monogram, now this is a G-chord.
Major Monogram: Uh, actually, it's Major Monogram. You see, I'm in charge of an elite group of secret agent undercover animals who— (clears throat) You don't mind me going on about this, do ya?
Jeremy: Hey, man, I charge by the hour, so knock yourself out.



(Scene opens up in the backyard)
Phineas: What to do, what to do?
Isabella: Hi, guys. What'cha doin'?
Phineas: Well, that's what we're trying to figure out. Hey, are you Fireside Girls missing any specific accomplishment patches?
Isabella: Let's see. What's next on the list? (reads a list of patches until she comes to the right one; snaps fingers) "Rodeo Clown" patch!
Baljeet: What does a rodeo clown do?
Buford: They keep the bulls from knockin' you over, like this! (knocks Baljeet over)
Baljeet: Oh, I can see how that would be helpful.
Phineas: We can build mechanical bulls and have a robot rodeo. Hey, where's Perry?

(Scene shifts to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. Seems the Tri-State Area's association of evil geniuses, the League Of Villainous Evildoers Maniacally United For Frightening Investments in Naughtiness, is having some sort of huge gathering. All of the other agents have been deployed, but none have reported back. We fear they've been captured. Now, see what you can do, Agent P. (salutes) Monogram out.
(Perry salutes)

(In Candace's room...)
Candace: Tiny Cowboy live in concert!
Stacy: Um, Candace? Candace?!
Candace: Tiny Cowboy is our favorite band ever! AHH!
Stacy: CANDACE! I can't go.
Candace: Wha...?
Stacy: It...it's my mom. She doesn't want me to go to the concert with you.
Candace: What? Doesn't she like me?
Stacy: No, no. She likes you just fine, she just thinks...you're, I don't know, flighty and unfocused from time to time.
Candace: "Unfocused"? What could possibly give her that... (hears motor whirring) Wait, did... did you hear that? Was that Ferb's band-saw?
Stacy: Candace?
Candace: Yes?
Stacy: Focus.
Candace: Oh, yeah, right.
Stacy: Mom said if I'm going to a grown-up concert, she wants me to go with someone more...grounded and mature.
Candace: I can be grounded and mature.
Stacy: Really?
Candace: Well, I can certainly fake it long enough to convince your mom. Remember that time I pretended to be Irish for a whole week?
Stacy: Indeed I do, Miss O'Flynn!
Candace: We can do this!
Candace/Stacy: AHHHHH!

(At the Quantity Inn...)
Judge: Welcome, one and all, to the second annual Inator Creator contest. And now, please welcome last year's winner, Rodney!
Rodney: Thank you. Feast your eyes, boys. (reveals trophy belt) Ta-daaaa!
(Everyone gasps)
Rodney: Look upon this belt of victory.
Doofenshmirtz: Ooh, I'm taking that puppy home with me, 'cause I'll have a greater Inator this year. Not a greater, it's...I-I'm not gonna break a block of cheese and make nachos for you guys. It's-it's greater in the sense that it's better than it was last year. (pause, walks away) That's what I mean.

(Scene shifts back to Candace's room)
Stacy: All right, let's concentrate on your look. Ta-da!
Candace: (wearing fake glasses) But... they're just a pair of fake glasses.
Stacy: Exactly. Nothing says real focus like fake glasses.
(mike tone)
Candace: What's that?
Ferb: (in the background) Cowgirls and cowpokes, welcome to the Flynn-Fletcher Bros' Rodeo!
Candace: Wait a minute! What's going on out there?
Stacy: Candace?
Candace: They'd better not be... (gasps) Feeling...busting...urge!
Stacy: Easy, girl.
(Camera pans to the robot rodeo in the backyard)
(Robot bulls mooing)
Phineas: Great job on these cowboy hat helmets, Ferb.
Candace: A rodeo?! (dials phone) Got tell Mom!
Stacy: Wait. Following all over yourself to bust your brothers is exactly what makes you look so flighty and unfocused.
Candace: I must repress my basic urges to bust.
Stacy: Repressing basic urges to bust is pretty responsible, isn't it?
Candace: Is it ever! Look at my mom!
(Linda is in the kitchen, staring at a cake)
Linda: Cake is a sometimes food. Cake is a sometimes food.
(At the robot rodeo...)
Ferb: All right, cowboys and cowgirls, it's time to get along, little doggy. Or even a short little doggy. I'm here all week. Try the veal!
(Song: Robot Rodeo)
♪ You're not a cow, I'm just a boy ♪
♪ With a mechanical bovine toy! ♪
♪ I'm just a boy, or just a girl ♪
♪ And you rock my mechanical bovine world! ♪
♪ Yipee-kiyay, yipee-kiyo ♪
♪ Give me a lasso and I'll give it a throw. ♪
♪ Yipee-kiyay, yipee-kiyo ♪
♪ In my robot rodeo. ♪
♪ Yipee-kiyay, yipee-kiyo, yipee-kiyay! ♪
♪ Yipee-kiyay, yipee-kiyo, yipee-kiyay! ♪

(Perry arrives at the Quantity Inn, but gets trapped in a leash)
Doofenshmirtz: Finally, Perry the Platypus! All the other animal agents were here on time before they got captured. I'm just saying. It's embarrassing. Anyway, join your friends in the inhospitality suite! (tosses Perry into metal container) Ha ha! Oh, and Perry the...
Rodney: Heinz, stop monologuing with your nemesis and show us that supposed Inator of yours already! (to his cronies) Doofy rented a private room off the convention floor, because he's still working on his! (they laugh)
Doofenshmirtz: Laugh enough, now, Rodney, but soon, you'll be crying like a...uh, like a...like a...something that's cries.
(Rodney's cronies laugh)
Rodney: Boo-hoo. Boo-hoo!
Doofenshmirtz: OH, he makes me so angry! I'm... uh, because he's so right! I need time to finish my Inator! All I've got so far is the fog machine and that's just to add some "pizazz" to the presentation. I could turn it on and fog out the whole contest, but all that would do is buy me some time...hey!

(Candace and Stacy are leaving the house)
Stacy: Okay, shoulders back.
Candace: Check!
Stacy: Steady walk?
Candace: Check.
Stacy: Serious look.
Candace: Check! Uh, Stacy?
Stacy: Yes?
Candace: I'm feeling the busting urge.
Phineas: Howdy, Candace! Enjoying the rodeo?
Candace: Uhhhh!
Stacy: Eyes on the prize, Candace, stay in character.
(Scene shifts to the Hirano household)
Linda: I'm sure your mom let you go to a concert by yourself when you were a teenager.
Dr. Hirano: Mmm...no.
(door closes)
Candace: Ahem. Good afternoon, Mother. Good afternoon, Dr. Hirano. Pardon the interruption, but is there any tediously responsible errand of a focused and mature nature that I can perform for you? Balance a checkbook, pay the bills, perhaps file some taxes?
Linda: Why do I feel that all of this has something to do with busting your brothers?
Candace: What?! (hears mechanical bull) Eh-heh, no. That would be childish of me.
Stacy: You see? Candace level-headed and responsible. She's not a bit worried about what Phineas and Ferb are doing right now.
Candace: (hears mechanical bull) What?! Yes! No, yes, I mean, i-if a responsible focused person...
Stacy: Like Candace...
Candace: Were to see her brothers engaged in some potential reckless activity,... (gets elbowed) Ow! THAT was childish.

(Doofenshmirtz puts out his fog machine, which fogs the entire contest grounds, causing everyone to cough.)
Man 1: There's no case to ruin it whatsoever!
Man 2: This is hideous.
(The fog floods the entire town as well as the rodeo.)
Baljeet: It is getting pretty foggy. Should we call the rodeo off?
Phineas: Nah, we'll just incorporate it and have a foggy robot rodeo! YEE-HAW! Ride 'em, cowboy!
Baljeet: Ride 'em where?
Buford: You should see what I'm doin'!
Isabella: This fog is making my hair frizzy!
(Scene shifts back to the Hirano household; Candace is fidgeting)
Stacy: It's so nice to sit and be responsible for a change. Just...focused, you know? And Candace and I were thinking that, oh, a live musical event might be a good opportunity for us to really...
Candace: Ma...ma...m-m-m-m-m...
Stacy: Candace? Tiny Cowboy.
Candace: Ma... ma...
Stacy: (whispering) Candace, the concert!
Candace: I can't help myself! MOM! PHINEAS AND FERB BUILT A RODEO IN THE BACKYARD WITH MECHANICAL BULLS AND BLEACHERS AND IS REALLY DANGEROUS! COME ON, YOU GOTTA BUST THEM! (drags Linda with her)
Dr. Hirano: This even I have to see.
Candace: (opening door) Come on... hey! What happened to Danville?
Linda: That's quite a fog bank.
Candace: (blows) Follow me, come on, come on. This way, ladies. Pick up the pace!
Linda: Candace, slow down!

(Doofenshmirtz is busy working)
Doofenshmirtz: Focus, must finish Inator. (hears applause) Wha... what's all that noise out there? I don't get it, what... what's there to applaud? My fog machine should've obscured everyone's Inators. What could it be...
Rodney: I give you, the Fog Clearer-Inator!
Judge: Once again, Rodney gives us just what we need, just when we need it. That puts him in the lead.
Doofenshmirtz: WHAT!? An electric fan? I knew I could beat that if I just had a little more time! (sighs) Wait! (Stares at the Agent Containment Unit)

(In the fog...)
Linda: Candace, we've been walking forever! Where's the backyard?
Candace: Hmm... (sniffs, licks, sniffs again) That way! I can smell Phineas and Ferb!
Dr. Hirano: And what exactly do they smell like?
Candace: Motor oil and competence!
(Buford's bull is acting erratically)
Buford: Hey! Oh! Heyhey!
Phineas: What's wrong, Buford?
Buford: I don't know, something's making my bull go whacko!
(Camera zooms to a close up of a red balloon one of the kids is holding)

(Doofenshmirtz backs up to the Agent Containment Unit and throws an escape blueprint in it. Perry reads it, and the agents form a ladder for him to escape. He then swings the agents out and they strike their fighting poses.)
Scientist 1: The animal agents are free!
(Perry knocks over one of the inators)
Scientist 2: My Inator! How disquieting!
Scientist 3: No, Agent C!
(Agent C smashes another inator)
Scientist 3: Oh, my Mom's gonna kill me-e-e!
Rodney: No, it's just an electric fan! It's been official to mankind!
(Agent Kitty starts to destroy the inator, but runs away)
Rodney: Heh heh heh.
(The agents continue to destroy the inators and attack the scientists)

(Back at the rodeo...)
Buford: That balloon! It's making the bulls angry!
Phineas: Hey, kid, you think you can let go of that balloon?
Kid: This balloon cost me fifty cents!
Audience: LET GO OF THE BALLOON!
(The kid lets go of the balloon. The bulls knock Buford and Ferb away and notice it. They chase after it, taking the rodeo with them)
Candace: Mom! Mom! The fog is lifting! (enters backyard) Aha! (fog lifts fully) Uh...rodeo? Bu--bu-bu-bu-but the... there was an... and I saw... a-and the bulls...
Phineas: Hey, Candace.
Stacy: Well, so much for Tiny Cowboy.
Dr. Hirano: Ohhhh, you can go to the concert. Candace's single-minded determination to bust her brothers shows focus. Something she hopes rubs off on you, young lady.

(Doofenshmirtz brings out his finished inator)
Rodney: Doofenshmirtz, I see you finally managed to cobble something together. What do you call it? A...Later-inator? (sarcastic laugh)
Doofenshmirtz: Noooo, I give you...the Eradicate Rodney's-Inator-inator!
(He presses a remote, the inator fires a boxing glove and destroys Rodney's inator)
Rodney: What?! No fair! (sobs)
Doofenshmirtz: LIKE A BABY! YEAH, THAT'S RIGHT! That's what I was looking for. AND... IT'S THE LAST INATOR STANDING!
Judge: Doofenshmirtz wins by default!
Doofenshmirtz: By default, my favorite way to win!
Judge: Unfortunately, the trophy belt was destroyed in the fight. So...uh, oh! (grabs the balloon that just floated by) Here, take this balloon instead.
Doofenshmirtz: (takes the balloon) Eh, a prize is a prize. (at the balloon) I'm going to call you...Balloony II. (hears mooing) What's that?
(the bulls come stampeding into the room and destroy the Quantity Inn)
(Doofenshmirtz screams)

(Back in the backyard, Phineas and Ferb are under the tree when Perry comes by)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
(Camera pans out to show Isabella, hair all frizzed up from the fog)
Isabella: Well, this was fun, but I'm gonna go wash my hair, now.
(Song: Izzy's Got the Frizzies)
♪ Whoa, whoa, yeah! ♪
♪ She's gonna be a big sensation ♪
♪ Izzy's got the frizzies! ♪
♪ Izzy's, (Ow) Izzy's got the frizzies ♪
♪ Cause she's sportin' major kinkification ♪
♪ Izzy's got the frizzies! ♪
♪ Izzy's, (Ow) Izzy's got the frizzies ♪
♪ And now she's gonna tell you how ♪
♪ Izzy's got the frizzies!♪
Isabella: It's because of the humidity!

End Credits
(Song: Izzy's Got the Frizzies)
♪ Whoa, whoa, yeah! ♪
♪ She's gonna be a big sensation ♪
♪ Izzy's got the frizzies! ♪
♪ Izzy's, (Ow) Izzy's got the frizzies ♪
♪ Cause she's sportin' major kinkification ♪
♪ Izzy's got the frizzies! ♪
♪ Izzy's, (Ow) Izzy's got the frizzies ♪
♪ And now she's gonna tell you how ♪
♪ Izzy's got the frizzies!♪



Part 1
(The scene opens showing a large structure on top of the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Phineas: Here it is. The Phineas-and-Ferb-edge-of-insanity-kiss-your-butt-goodbye-gravity's-a-stone-cold-sucker-nightmare-rail-skate-track-obstacle-course of doom! You ready, Ferb?
(Ferb gives a thumbs up before he picks up Phineas' board. He accidentally drops it and it goes down the track)
Phineas: Oops. (He and Ferb watch, cringing as the board is going down hit by hammers, attacked by a leopard, among other things before it reaches the bottom and blows up) You know, it occurs to me we could get hurt. I guess the "of doom" in the name should've tipped us off. Well, Ferbooch, unfortunately, there's only one way down: the stairs.

(The scene switches to a dentist office where Linda is about to have a root canal)
Dentist: Okay, Linda, you may feel a little pressure.
(The door bursts open and Candace comes in)
Candace: Mom, you've gotta come home! Phineas and Ferb built a nightmare-rail-skate-ramp of doom on top of the house! You've gotta—!
Linda: (Her words sound funny because she has a dental instrument in her mouth) Oh, you have got to be kidding me! In case you haven't notice I'm kind of in the middle of something here!
Candace: Is that even English?
Linda and the dentist: Out!
Candace: Alright, alright, jeez! Don't take it out on me; I'm the good guy here! (She leaves)
Dentist: Alright, let's get back to your root canal.
Linda: Ah, thank goodness.

(Scene switches to the backyard)
Phineas: Hey, Isabella. What's up with the getup?
Isabella: I'm going for my Intrepid Reporter Patch. Can I report on what you guys are doing?
Phineas: Sure.
Isabella: Cool! Isabella Garcia-Shapiro, the Fireside Girl Gazette. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Ferb and I have built the ultimate extreme skate track obstacle course!
Isabella: Awesome! I knew I could count on you for the coolest story ever! Have you attempted a run yet?
Phineas: Well, we decided we need to make a few tweaks and adjustments so we can, you know, survive and stuff.
Isabella: Okay, I'll be back in an hour. Hopefully I can make the Early Mid-Morning Edition! See ya! (She leaves)
Phineas: Hmm. Instead of modifying the track, maybe we should modify ourselves. Together we could be the best skateboarder ever! Hey, where's Perry?

(The scene switches to Perry, who is seen entering his lair. On the screen is Major Monogram along with Carl who repeatedly runs onscreen shredding objects and shouting in terror)
Monogram: Agent P, we've just received an alarming message from Doofenshmirtz. Watch closely, and join us in girlish panic if you’re into it.
(The video shows Doofenshmirtz shaking hands and walking with citizens of Danville)
Doofenshmirtz: (voice over) Citizens of Danville, I, Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz, have seized control of the Tri-State Area and am now your supreme leader. Seriously, life as you know it is over. (Shows him speaking to a crowd) Thank you and remember: Doof you, doof me, doof us! (In a small box on screen, he appears saying) I'm Heinz Doofenshmirtz and I approve this evil message.
(Monogram appears on screen again, in a dress along with Carl who is now shaving his head and is only wearing a diaper.)
Monogram: With Doofenshmirtz in charge, no man, woman, child, or hat-wearing mammal is safe. You must find out what’s going on. (He puts on a wig and Carl gets in a baby carriage) Carl and I will be on the lamb, incognito. Good luck, Agent P!

(Back with Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: We have to blur the line between skateboard and skateboarder. We can combine dirt biking, ATV racing, in-line skating, street luge, motorized scooters, and Bulgarian folk dancing. Of course, all this extreme fun requires extreme safety: shoulder pads, goggles, gloves, Bulgarian folk athletic supporters, and rocket boosters, razor wire, grappling hooks and laser blaster. Then we lock it all in with an indestructible titanium exoskeleton which increases strength, jumping ability, and other physical attributes one hundred times, including the senses and folk dancing ability.
(Ferb gives him an odd look as a record scratches)
Phineas: What, you think we should add more Bulgarian folk related elements?
(Ferb rolls his eyes before giving him the look again)
Phineas: Oh, less! Less Bulgarian--okay, wow. I thought we were on the same page. But no. It's cool. Whatever. Time to suit up!
(They’re shown in the backyard, getting in the suit before a mask is placed on Phineas' head)
Phineas: Okay, video link active. (in a deeper, robotic voice) How you doin', Ferb? Oh cool! Look what it does to my voice! Ohhh, yeaaah. How about a little test run?

(Song: Yippy Ki Yi Yay!)
(They go down the skate track they built and reach the bottom unharmed when Phineas hears something)
Phineas: (In the robotic voice) Hey, what's that? Turn down the music.
Buford: (Distantly) He's stuck in a tree, and I can't get him down!
Phineas: (In the robotic voice) Sounds like Buford's in trouble. Hey, Ferb, maybe we can use this suit to help him. Hold on tight! (He jumps in the air) Hit the rocket boosters!
(Ferb does and the rockets come out of the rear of the suit causing Phineas to falter somewhat)
Phineas: (In the robotic voice) Whoa! Yeah, hey Ferb, check us out! We're flying!
(Back at the Flynn-Fletcher house, Isabella walks into the yard)
Isabella: Phineas, I'm back! Phineas? Ferb? (She sighs) Well, I guess there goes my Early Mid-Morning Edition story...

(Switches to Buford, who is standing near a tree which Baljeet is sitting on a branch of)
Phineas: (In the robotic voice) There they are!
Buford: Help, my nerd is stuck in a tree! (Clicks his tongue holding up a piece of paper and a calculator) Look, it's your favorite calculator and some math problems!
Baljeet: Oh! Fractions? (While he stands he loses his footing and falls, shouting)
Buford: Baljeet!
(Phineas and Ferb, in the robotic suit, fly over and catch Baljeet before he hits the ground)
Phineas: (In the robotic voice) I got you!

(It switches to Isabella, a distance away, seeing the suit flying around in the air)
Isabella: What is that?

(Switches back with Phineas, still holding Baljeet, who's still screaming)
Baljeet: Oh! This is so much worse than hitting the ground! (Continues shouting)
(Isabella runs over taking pictures before Phineas quickly sets Baljeet on the ground, taking off again)
Buford: (Hugs Baljeet) He saved my nerd!
Isabella: Wow! That was amazing! I can't believe Phineas and Ferb missed it...

(The scene switches to Candace, who is riding her bike)
Candace: It's not fair. Every time I try to bust Phineas and Ferb it's always "Candace, I'm shopping," "Candace, I’m having root canal surgery," "Candace, I'm deliberating with a sequestered jury. How did you even get in here?" Then my-- (seeing Phineas and Ferb fly past in the super suit) Oh look, a flying man! (She suddenly stops) Wait a second. Isn't that impossible? Wait another second! Something impossible plus that thing existing in real life equals... (She gasps before pedaling toward home) Phineas and Ferb!

(With Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: (In the robotic voice) Well, we've figured out how to fly. Now we need to figure out how to stop flying. Deploying grappling hook!
(The grappling hook attaches to the skate track they built and he flies around it before he finally comes to a stop, causing parts of the track to scatter all over the yard and roof)
Phineas: (In the robotic voice) Well, at least we stopped flying.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Ex-leaders of the Tri-State Area, I have called you here to help ease the citizens into this exchange of power.
Building Superintendent: I thought you called me here to re-caulk your tub.
Crossing Guard: I'm only the crossing guard at Fourth Street and Maple. I'm not really sure how much authority I have.
Doofenshmirtz: Silence! Are you suggesting that I attempted to gather the leaders of the Tri-State Area but the best I could do was a crossing guard and my building super?
Crossing Guard: No, but now that you mention it...
Doofenshmirtz: Silence! Wrong! You're wrong! Do you know who that is? It's only Roger Doofenshmirtz, the mayor of Danville! So shut up! What do you know; you’re only a crossing guard!
Crossing Guard: That's what I'm trying to tell you!
Doofenshmirtz: Silence!
Roger Doofenshmirtz: I'm sorry, but if we're not really gonna plan Mom's birthday, then I gotta jet.
Crossing Guard, Building Super: Yeah, us too.
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, hey, hey, wait!
(The door slams and Perry then comes in)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, great, Perry the Platypus. This is all I need... So what did you want to talk to me about-- (He's suddenly hit by a chair and Perry starts going toward him. Doofenshmirtz quickly tries to scoot away) Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa whoa!

(Switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Phineas: Wow, the suit makes the clean-up fast, fun and efficient! I feel bad about missing Isabella. I hope she found something else to write a story about.
Unknown blonde Fireside Girl: Early mid-morning edition! The Beak saves the geek! (Tosses the newspaper at the driveway)
Phineas: (picks up newspaper) "Superhero comes to Danville, by Isabella Garcia-Shapiro. I call him The Beak." Hey, I like that. (During this sentence the scene switches to Khaka Peu Peu's house, with him reading as well) "With The Beak watching over us, everyone in Danville is free to have...
Khaka Peu Peu: "...the best day ever." Best day ever, huh? (picks up an eye mask) We'll see about that.
Khaka Peu Peu's Wife: Are you in there complainin' again about never havin' a good day in your life?
Khaka Peu Peu: Well, I never did! Where's my best day ever, thank you very much? Ha, I told her. (is hit by a chair) Oh!
Khaka Peu Peu's Wife: I heard that!

(Back with Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: A superhero? That's not at all what we planned to do today! (His phone rings and he answers) Oh, hi, Isabella.
Isabella: Phineas, where'd you go? You really let me down.
Phineas: Yeah, sorry about that.
Isabella: It's a good thing something else came along for me to report on.
Phineas: Yeah, I know, but, hey, maybe we can make it up to you.
Isabella: Really?
Phineas: Yeah, how would you like an exclusive?
Isabella: (Excited) Great! Meet me downtown in five minutes!
Phineas: Will do. (He hangs up) Come on, we have to go tell Isabella we're The Beak.
Ferb: Ahem.
Phineas: Fine, we can take the suit.
(They take off in the suit and Candace sees from the front yard)
Candace: I knew it was— (Is hit by a newspaper) Blech! "Superhero comes to Danville." Well, they're about to get super-busted!

(Back with Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!

(With Phineas and Ferb. (Phineas, when in the suit will now just be called “The Beak”))
The Beak: Well, I've gotta admit this flying thing is pretty fun. Hey, look, there's Isabella. Yo, Isabella-- (He's hit into a building by Khaka Peu Peu)
Khaka Peu Peu: Take that, birdbrain! Behold, the Khaka Crawler. I built it in my basement out of discarded washers and dryers, thank you very much. And I'm gonna make sure no one has the best day ever!
(The crowd murmurs and Monogram, still disguised as a woman, runs past)
Monogram: Hide my baby!
Isabella: Phineas, where are you? There's this giant robot machine attacking downtown Danville! I'm all alone here! Call me as soon as you get this. (To herself) Come on, Isabella, this is what being an intrepid reporter is all about!

(Switches to inside City Hall, where Roger watches Khaka Peu Peu pass by)
Roger Doofenshmirtz: Oh, this is not good, Melanie. I'll bet they'll try and pin this on me.
Melanie: It's not like you're the one who used the unsigned proposal for defending Danville from giant robot attacks as a coaster. Oh, wait, you were.
Roger Doofenshmirtz: Yes, it's so easy to blame the guy in charge. "The guy in charge." Ha-ha! That's it.

(With Perry and Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: And... whoa! Uh, you know that whole taking over the Tri-State Area thing? I-I was just bluffing. I-- I hoped maybe if I just told everyone I was in charge, they'd be too lazy or too busy to, you know, actually... check. (His phone rings) Oh, hello, Roger. (He makes a face to Perry) Uh-huh. What? You are? Me? In charge? It worked? You're kidding! Y-You're not kidding?

(Back in Danville, everyone is screaming and running from the Khaka Crawler while Isabella is nearby, taking pictures. It switches to The Beak who is lying, seemingly passed out, in the building he'd been knocked into)
Isabella: Oh, where is Phineas? He'd know what to do. Please, Phineas. Where are you?
(Phineas seems to frown as the suit can be heard turning back on.)

(Back outside)
Khaka Peu Peu: Who knew wrecking everyone's day would be this much fun?
The Beak: Hey, you!
Isabella: The Beak!
Khaka Peu Peu: Oh, you're back for more, thank you very much.
(Khaka Peu Peu starts walking toward the Beak. The Beak jumps and runs into the Khaka Crawler, causing them both to fall. The Beak quickly stands up and he dodges a few attacks and lands on a power line. The Khaka Crawler touches the line and causes it to malfunction. The Beak jumps back down on the road below)
Khaka Peu Peu: Oh, great. Now I have to restart, thank you very much.
The Beak: Dude, who are you, anyway?
Khaka Peu Peu: If you're here to give Danville the best day ever, then I'm here to give Danville the worst day ever. You can call me "Khaka Peu Peu!" (The crowd laughs) What? Oh, come on. It's a family name, loosely translated as "The Strong Fist," or "That Strong Fist." Thank you very much!
The Beak: All right, let's wrap this up. (He uses the grappling hook to wrap up the legs of the Khaka Crawler) Hey, cool, my first superhero pun.
Khaka Peu Peu: (Sarcastically) Well, don't quit your day job, Mr. Comedian.
Man: Actually, I thought it was pretty clever.
Charles: Yeah, 'cause, see, it, it wrapped around the legs.
The Beak: If you didn't like that one, maybe this'll be a hit. (He hits the Khaka Crawler into the air with one of its legs)
Charles: (To the man beside him) Yeah, see, 'cause--'cause he hit him.
Man: I'm not an idiot, Charles.
Khaka Peu Peu: This isn't over. You haven't seen the last of Khaka Peu Peu! I'll come at you through what's most important to you. Thank you very much!
(Khaka Peu Peu flies off and The Beak tosses the leg of the Khaka Crawler he's holding to the side)
Isabella: You were amazing!
The Beak: Huh?
Isabella: Isabella Garcia-Shapiro, the Fireside Girl Gazette. Would it be okay if I asked you a few questions?
The Beak: Um, I can't talk right now. Gotta go, bye. (He flies off)
Isabella: Oh, uh, okay. Bye. Thanks for saving me.

(With the Beak)
The Beak: We can't tell Isabella we're The Beak now. That would put her in danger. The life of a superhero is a lonely one, Ferb. Even after only eleven minutes.
Narrator: What will become of our heroes now? Find out in the next exciting episode of The Beak.

Part 2
Narrator: We now return to suburban Danville, where things continue to happen.

(In Candace's room)
Stacy: Are you sure Phineas and Ferb are really The Beak? He's just so heroic and hunky.
Candace: Ugh! Barf-aroni with cheese! Stacy, please. Phineas and Ferb are doing something totally bustable that's also mobile. We can lure them right to Mom to bust themselves.
Stacy: And how exactly will we do this?
Candace: Well, if they wanna play superhero, then we're gonna play super-villain. Call me The Dangiraffe.
Stacy: Right, and where do I fit in?
Candace: You'll be my henchman.
Stacy: Your what?
Candace: It's like the bridesmaid of crime.
Stacy: Okay, got it. Although, it looks like they've got their hands full with Khaka Peu Peu.
Candace: That's obviously some big, stupid dress-up game they're playing with their little loser friends. Now, if my research is correct, the way to defeat a superhero is to come at him through what's important to him. (She holds up a picture of the boys and Linda before laughing maniacally)

(In City Hall)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, check this place out. Suh-wanky. Melanie?
Melanie: Hello, Heinz.
Doofenshmirtz: No, no, please call me Supreme Leader Doofenshmirtz. The Great.
Melanie: No.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, I see Roger left me a note. Let's see. "Bro, thanks for filling in for me. You're going to make a great fall guy. I mean, mayor." Aw, that's so sweet. (Perry shakes a box he's holding) Go ahead and put that on my new desk. (Perry sets it down only to have it wrap around him, trapping him) Ha ha! Made you carry your own trap. Now, my first order of business is to make all the citizens of Danville bow down--
Melanie: No, it's not. Here's your schedule and all your missed phone calls. Let's focus.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, uh, wow, uh, okay...
Melanie: And if you hadn't noticed, the city is in the grip of fear and panic caused by an evil super-villain intent on destroying our way of life.
Doofenshmirtz: What? But--but that's my job!

(Back with Phineas and Ferb in the backyard)
Phineas: There. You can't even tell we've built our secret lair up in the tree.
Isabella: Hi, guys.
Phineas: (Hides the remote behind his back) Nothing! I mean, hi, Isabella. We're not doing-- Nothing!
(Ferb gives him a sarcastic thumbs up)
Isabella: Where have you been?
Phineas: (He scratches his ear) Um, oh, you know us. Busy, busy, busy.
Isabella: Right. While you two were busy making sure your summer day was "fun", other people were busy saving Danville. (She holds out a newspaper showing the Beak)
Phineas: (He scratches his ear again) The Beak, huh? Check it out, Ferb. A real superhero.
Isabella: And I need your help to find him. I thought there might be some clues in the photos I took that could help him stop Khaka Peu Peu.
Ferb: (Snorts at the name)
Isabella: Fine, if you guys aren't going to take this seriously, I'll find The Beak on my own.
Phineas: Isabella, wait.
Isabella: I gotta go. Bye, Phineas. (She leaves)
(He and Ferb exchange a look)
Phineas: Ferb, to the nest.
(He clicks the button on the remote and a giant egg pops out of the tree and opens to reveal a seat. He and Ferb get in. The egg lands inside the secret lair, it wiggles before Phineas cracks it open with his nose)
Phineas: Ready, Ferb? Let's wing it.
The Beak: Ba-caw!
(Song: The Beak)
♪ The Beak, The Beak ♪
♪ Flies as fast as a supersonic jet ♪
♪ The Beak, (The Beak) ♪
♪ The Beak, (The Beak) ♪
♪ You can't fly Be honest, you can't ♪
♪ The Beak, (The Beak) ♪
♪ The Beak, (The Beak) ♪
♪ He's strong enough to move a mountain ♪
♪ You're pretty weak ♪
♪ Seriously, what do you bench? ♪
♪ You really are pretty lame compared to The Beak ♪
♪ The Beak, The Beak ♪
♪ The Beak, The Beak! ♪

(With Candace)
Candace: (She calls Phineas' phone) Phineas, quick, Mom is in danger! (She screams before hanging up) And the award goes to... Oh, wait, shoot. (She calls him again) On the corner of Fourth Street and Maple Drive! (screams before hanging up again) Beautiful! Now it's all up to The Dangiraffe.
Stacy: So then what does The Dangerbil do?
Candace: I told you. You're my henchman. Hench or something.
Stacy: Oh, no, you did not just tell me to hench.
Candace: Okay, just watch my bike! (She chuckles evilly as she runs passed her mom, grabbing her purse)
Linda: Candace, what on Earth are you doing?
Candace: Err, give, woman!
Linda: What do you need? Gum?
Candace: Help, help! I'm taking her purse!
Linda: Here, honey, here's a 20. Why don't you go see a movie?
Candace: Aha! I stole 20 bucks from this woman! Help! The Beak!
Phineas: Hi, Mom. Hi, Candace. Everything okay?
Candace: What? Where's The Beak? Mom's been robbed.
Linda: Oh, yes, right. Apparently Giraffe Girl has robbed me.
Candace: Oh, come on, admit it. You two are superheroes.
Phineas: Well, Ferb has been working out. Thanks for noticing.
Candace: Tell her the truth. You're making me look ridiculous.
(pause)
Linda: Way too easy.
Stacy: I lost your bike.

(With Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, as much as I hate joining forces with good, I need to take my responsibilities as mayor very seriously, if I plan to abuse the position later, so... (He presses something on his desk) Melanie, have you gotten me the phone number of The Beak--?
Melanie: That's your stapler.
Doofenshmirtz: Oops, sorry. (He presses something on his desk again) Have you gotten the phone number of The Be--?
Melanie: Still your stapler.

(With Candace)
Candace: "Apparently Giraffe Girl has robbed me." "Ferb has been working out." "Excuse me; my child can't see the movie over your monstrous giraffe head!" Oh, I'll show them. I'll show them all.
Khaka Peu Peu: Hello there.
Candace: (screams) Hey, you're Khaka Peu Peu. (Snorts) No offense.
Khaka Peu Peu: None taken, thank you very much. I had no idea we had another player in this game.
Candace: Aha! I knew it. It's all some stupid game. I'm The Dangiraffe.
Khaka Peu Peu: Right... What do you say we join forces to defeat The Beak?
Candace: Fine, but if my friends see us, I don't know you.
Khaka Peu Peu: Hmmm...

(In town with Phineas and Ferb who are riding their skateboard and bike, respectively)
Phineas: Come on, Ferb. Let's get back to the nest.
(They stop after seeing Isabella)
Isabella: Oh, hello, Ferb. Phineas.
Phineas: Hey, Isabella. Sorry we had to duck out on you earlier.
Isabella: Well, that's okay. It's just kind of weird for me not to know where you are or whatcha doin'.
Phineas: Fair enough.
Khaka Peu Peu: Miss Garcia-Shapiro? I've got your next headline: "Everybody's day ruined once and for all and The Beak powerless to save it!"
Isabella: Um, it's a little wordy for a headline.
Khaka Peu Peu: Enough! Okay, Danville, nothing ruins a day faster than unexpected... rain showers.
Man: You monster! Now I'm wet.
Khaka Peu Peu: (laughing maniacally)

(With Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Melanie?
Melanie: That's your tape dispenser.
Doofenshmirtz: Mela--
Melanie: Paperweight.

(Outside with Phineas, Ferb and Isabella)
Isabella: Oh, no. This is terrible. I'm so glad you're here with me, Phineas. Come on, we can cover the action better from the top of City Hall! (She starts running toward city hall, before she notices Phineas isn’t with her) Phineas?
Phineas: I'm sorry, Isabella. We can't go with you.
Isabella: You're gonna leave me again?!
Phineas: You're gonna have to trust me. Have I ever let you down?
Isabella: Yes. Like, four times today alone.
Phineas: I'm sorry, Isabella. Maybe one day you'll understand. Come on, Ferb. Let's roll. (He and Ferb head back home)
Isabella: Phineas, don't you leave me! Phineas!!

(In City Hall)
Doofenshmirtz: Melanie, could you come in here--
Melanie: And that would be a bowl of mints.
Doofenshmirtz: I've got my finger in a bowl of mints?
Melanie: Yes, you do.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, well, that would explain why there are so many buttons.

(Outside)
Khaka Peu Peu: I guess your superhero turned out to be a chicken beak. (imitating a chicken)
The Beak: Well, which came first, the chicken or the egg? (He shoots Khaka Peu Peu with an egg)
Khaka Peu Peu: Ugh! Well, I've got a surprise for you too. I'm not alone this time. May I introduce... The Dangiraffe!
Candace: Busted.
Man: (Gasps) Her name's funny, but not ha-ha funny.
The Beak: Oh, no. He's got Candace. I can't believe it. He actually found out what was important to us.
Khaka Peu Peu: Your move, worm breath.
The Beak: Um, okay, I give up.
Khaka Peu Peu: Then to the death it i-- Wait, what?
The Beak: You win.
Khaka Peu Peu: Huh? Why?
The Beak: Well, 'cause you've got her.
Khaka Peu Peu: What? The Dangiraffe? You're kidding! She's just my henchman.
Candace: Oh, I do not hench, thank you very much. Dangiraffe is out. Peace.
The Beak: Ba-caw.
(The Beak rushes toward Khaka Peu Peu, suddenly a much greater distance away than he had been seconds before)
Khaka Peu Peu: Wait. How did he get so far away?

(In City Hall)
Doofenshmirtz: Melanie, do we even have an intercom?
Melanie: We do not.
(A whooshing is heard outside as the Beak and Khaka Peu Peu fly past the window)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, look, it's The Beak. Awesome! I'm gonna go check it out.

(Back outside The Beak and Khaka Peu Peu are fighting when Khaka Peu Peu knocks the Beak into City Hall, unknowingly knocking Perry out of his trap and causing Isabella to lose her balance)
Isabella: Whoa! (She falls off City Hall and screams, barely grabbing onto the edge of the building) Help!
The Beak: Oh, no! Isabella!
Khaka Peu Peu: And that's not all, do-gooder. Watch as I destroy the very symbol of good days everywhere!
(He shoots a ray at a billboard for Bango-rus on Ice and sends it down toward a group of citizens who all begin to scream and shout. The Beak looks between the falling billboard and Isabella, not sure what to do)
Isabella: Beak, save me!
Khaka Peu Peu: Uh-oh, two problems, one Beak.
Isabella: I can't hold on! Aah!
(As she lets go, another hand grabs her own)
Phineas: Gotcha!
Isabella: Phineas! But what happened to The Beak?
(The camera flashes back to the Beak suit, it's running toward the other side of the building. It shows Ferb struggling to keep the suit going by himself. He quickly turns an analog stick causing the top half of the suit to spin before he jumps and runs into the board, breaking it into pieces. The crowd below cheers)
Khaka Peu Peu: Come back here, you!
Isabella: Thanks for coming back, Phineas.
Phineas: No problem. Ah, gotta go. (He runs and jumps off of the edge of the building)
Isabella: (gasps before running over)
(The Beak flies up from where Phineas had jumped, stopping Isabella)
The Beak: Don't worry, your friend's fine. He landed on a... ledge, but don't look for me because he... crawled in a window. You know, perhaps I'm over-explaining this. Gotta go! (He flies back to Khaka Peu Peu knocking down the Khaka Crawler)
Khaka Peu Peu: Admit it, you're having a bad day.
The Beak: Never! Nothing's gonna stop me from having the best day ever.
Khaka Peu Peu: Oh, yeah? Well, I never had a best day ever. Thank you very much.
The Beak: I get it, Ferb. All this guy ever wanted was to have the best day ever. You know what we have to do, right?
Khaka Peu Peu: Now, Beak, we finish it.
The Beak: I coul-- (He takes off the mask, causing Phineas' voice to return to normal) --dn't agree more.
Khaka Peu Peu: Huh?
Isabella: Phineas is The Beak?!
Candace: (Sarcastically) Hey, you just earned your "Uh-Durr" Patch.
Khaka Peu Peu: You're just a couple of kids.
Phineas: Sure, my name's Phineas and this is my brother Ferb.
(It shows Candace running over to her mom, who's coming out of an eyeglass store)
Candace: Mom, did you see them? Did you? Did you? Did you?
Linda: Um, no, the optometrist just dilated my pupils. Everything's actually a big, blurry blob at the moment. But get me. "I'll be back."
Khaka Peu Peu: But there's no point in being a super villain if there's no superhero to fight with.
Phineas: Exactly. We were thinking of rebuilding our cool skateboard ramp. Wanna help? It'll be fun!
Khaka Peu Peu: Really? You want me to help? Wait a minute, how is that fun? It's like 85 degrees out here. That sounds dreadful!
Phineas: But--
Isabella: But--
Candace: But--
Khaka Peu Peu: Forget it! (He's knocked out of the Khaka Crawler after getting hit by a chair)
Khaka Peu Peu's Wife: Where you been?
Khaka Peu Peu: Oh, hi, honey.
Khaka Peu Peu's Wife: Shoo-ush, you! You were supposed to take me shopping. I need me some more throwing chairs!
Khaka Peu Peu: Yes, dear. (He walks away, mumbling) There goes my day, thank you very much.
Phineas: Well, it looks like he's gonna get his punishment after all. (He and Ferb walk away)
Doofenshmirtz: Finally. It's my turn. (He jumps into the Khaka Crawler) Now, let the master show you how evil is done!
(As Doofenshmirtz takes off, Perry runs and jumps into the abandoned Beak-suit. He takes off after Doofenshmirtz)
♪ Perry ♪
Isabella: Phineas, I'm sorry I doubted you. I should have known you were The Beak all along.
Phineas: That's okay, Isabella. I'm sorry I couldn't tell you.
Isabella: I know you were just trying to protect me.

(Back with Doofenshmirtz and Perry, Perry runs the Beak-suit into the Khaka Crawler)
Doofenshmirtz: What? (Perry jumps out of the suit while Doofenshmirtz begins to crash) Curse you, Perry the Beakapus!
(Perry lands in Monogram's baby carriage, right behind Phineas and Ferb. Phineas looks back, hearing it, but Monogram's already walking away.)
Phineas: What was that?!
Monogram: Good work, Agent P.
Linda: Oh, hey, my vision's clearing up. So, what did you want me to see?
Candace: Oh, forget it.
Linda: Okay, then. Why don't we all go home for some snacks?
(The town cheers before everyone starts to head to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Isabella: (flirtatious) By the way, Phineas, you were very brave.
Phineas: (Obliviously) Thanks. You were too.
Ferb: Um, hello? Entire lower half of amazing superhero here. (He sighs) I guess there's no glory in thighs.
Narrator: And so things pretty much worked out. I guess. Narrator guy is out. Peace.

End Credits
(Song: The Beak)
♪ The Beak, The Beak ♪
♪ Flies as fast as a supersonic jet ♪
♪ The Beak, (The Beak) ♪
♪ The Beak, (The Beak) ♪
♪ You can't fly Be honest, you can't ♪
♪ The Beak, (The Beak) ♪
♪ The Beak, (The Beak) ♪
♪ He's strong enough to move a mountain ♪
♪ You're pretty weak ♪
♪ Seriously, what do you bench? ♪
♪ You really are pretty lame compared to The Beak ♪
♪ The Beak, The Beak ♪
♪ The Beak, The Beak! ♪
♪ The Beak ♪



(Scene opens up on the City Hall clock; it strikes 1:00)
Roger: And now, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pride that I announce the winner of this year's annual "Mayor For A Day" essay contest. For her brilliant essay entitled "Why My Little Brothers Should Be Busted", I relinquish my office as mayor for the day to Candace Flynn!
Lawrence: Oh, bravo! Bravissimo!
Phineas: Way to go, sis!
Roger: Miss Flynn has found the perfect metaphor for our troubled times. In this day and age, it is all of our responsibility to "bust" the "little brothers" of corporate greed to the "mom" of fiscal responsibility.
Person from the audience: Hooray for "busting little brothers" being a perfect metaphor for our times!
Linda: Oh, that's great. I've been rushing home all summer long for a metaphor.
Roger: Candace Flynn has that true, good ol' pioneering spirit represented by the founding men and woman who built this city using only what the land provided.
Person from the audience: Hooray for building things without the tools and technology we take for granted today!
Linda: Let's hope the city survives.
Phineas: Building things without tools and technology? Hmm. Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today.
Roger: I give you Candace Flynn.
Candace: Uh, I think we should bust my brothers. Yes, um... when I was the queen of Mars, I...
Roger: All righty, then. Let's get you to your office. Candace Flynn, everybody!
Phineas: Looks like Candace has a full day. And so do we. Let's bounce.
(cut to the inside of the mayor's office)
Roger: And here we are. Oh, look at that. You get the big chair. And you get your own nameplate and a bowl of mints. Ooh! Picture op! Great! Melanie, I'm off to my appointment. You make sure the new mayor has everything she needs. Miss Flynn, you are in charge.
Candace: In charge, huh? Time to make some new laws.
Melanie: You realize this is just a temporary position for show? You don't really have the power to...
Candace: So, as a mayor, I officially give you the rest of the week off.
Melanie: Well, that's really cute, but...
Candace: With pay.
Melanie: Melanie is out, peace!
Candace: Hey Stacy, how'd you like to be the assistant to the mayor?
Stacy: Coolness. At your service.
Candace: At last. Candace Flynn is in charge.
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
Isabella: What'cha doin'?
Phineas: We're going to build an authentic pioneer town in our own backyard. And we're only gonna use Dad's antique collection of pioneer tools to do it. That's the spirit, Ferb. Hey, where's Perry?
(cut to Perry with Major Monogram and Carl)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P. Uh, sorry we have to meet here at the agency sauna. It's just that if we don't use it at least three times a month, we lose our privileges. Anyway, it's our old friend Doofenshmirtz again. He's been researching both theoretical physics and golf fashion. Sounds like an unholy combination. So we're sending you in undercover to stop him. Good luck, Agent P. Agent W! Ha ha! Didn't see you there. How's the old blow hole?
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
Phineas: Let's get authentic.
(slow country music)
(Song: "Quirky Worky Song" (Pioneer version))
(Song: "Ordinary Day")
Candace: Okay, Stacy. Let's get busy. I have a city to run. (walks out the door) The task force recruits are looking pretty good. Wait a minute. New law: I'm the one one who can wear that color!
Stacy: Duly noted.
Candace: (cuts somewhere else) New law: everything should be pretty. (cuts somewhere else) New law: free makeovers for the mayor.
Stacy: Good one, Miss Mayor.
(cut to somewhere else)
Candace: New law: today is "Free Clothing For The Mayor Day"! I'll take that! And I'll take that! And I'll take that! And I'll take that! And...
(cut outside)
Candace: (keeps making laws) New law! New law! New law!
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
(slow country theme playing (Quirky Worky Song); Phineas and Ferb pant; slow country music continues playing)
(cut to Stacy and Candace)
Stacy: Well, Looks like you've left your mark on Danville.
Candace: What?
Stacy: I said, it looks like you've left your mark on...
Candace: What?
Stacy: I've said...
Candace: Hold on a sec, Stace. Can we kill the music, please?
(music stops)
Stacy: Oh, brother, I busted my pencil.
Candace: Brother? Busted? I just realized. I, like so many other elected officials, have forgotten the very promises I made that got me into office in the first place!  That's it! I'm gonna bust my brothers!
(Cut to Danville Country Club.)
Doofenshmirtz: (on phone) Yes, Mother, I know I promised that I'd spend some quality time with my brother, but, golf? Really? I mean... No, I am not a big baby! I, uh, I am not! Oh, there he is now. Goodbye, Mother. (hangs up)
Roger: Hello, brother dear. Sorry we're late. Couldn't be helped. You know how it is. Traffic was terrible and I've already wasted half a morning not caring at all about being punctual for our golf game. Oh, and this is my caddy, Katie.
Katie: (giggles)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey...hey, where's my caddy?
Perry: (chatters)
(Cut to reveal Perry dressed as a caddy. Doof, as usual, does not recognize him without the fedora.)
Doofenshmirtz: Say, you're not my regular caddy.
Roger: Oh, lighten up, Heinz. You know what they say, "You can't be tee'd off once you've teed-off." Heh-heh-heh. That was very funny.
Doofenshmirtz: What? Who says that?
Roger: You know, "They." (points over to his left) Those guys over there.
(Cut to a couple of creepy looking twin dudes.)
"They": You can't be tee'd off once you've teed-off.
(Cut back to Roger, Doof, Katie and Perry.)
Roger: Creepy, huh? I've been trying to ditch those guys all day.
Doofenshmirtz: (to Perry) Are you sure we haven't met before? You look so familiar. Something about your platypus-like beak. Hmmm. Can't quite put my finger on it.
(Cut to the backyard, which now looks like an old-timey town.)
Phineas: Well, we're almost done. All we gotta do now is get rid of those cattle wrestlers.
(Cut to a couple of Mexican lucha wrestlers fighting a cow.)
Lucha Wrestler: Tag me in! Tag me in!
(Cut to an old coot.)
Old Coot: Ha! Galldang idgets!
(Cut back to Phineas and the gang.)
Isabella: Who's that guy?
Phineas: He's the Old Coot. Every frontier town had one.
(Cut back to the coot.)
Old Coot: (spits)
(Cut back to the gang.)
Buford: Man, he sure can spit.
Old Coot: You tenderfoots better high tail on outta here if you know what's good fer ya! This here town was built on top of an ancient Indian burial ground! (spits again)
(An inexplicable cat screech is heard.)
Phineas: Actually, this is our backyard.
(beat)
Old Coot: If you find any gold, it's mine!
Phineas: Uh, okay.
(POV binoculars shot of the gang and the coot.)
Old Coot: (whooping) If you find any gold, it's mine!
(Cut to reveal three highly-decorated Secret Service men on the roof.)
Secret Service Man: That's right, Madam Mayor, we're sending you video now.
(Cut to the mayor's office.)
Candace: That's it, boys. Good work. (to Stacy) It seems they've built some sort of lame town in our backyard.
Stacy: It looks like they've done a pretty good job.
Candace: Really, Stacy? Really? (on phone) Gather the press and the media and get them to my house! This time those pests are goin' down! (hangs up)
Stacy: (to the tune of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony) ♪ Dun dun dun duuuuuuunnnn... ♪
(Cut to a very sleepy Doof. Roger swings and hits his ball.)
Roger: Heinz! Wake up, Heinz, we're on to the next hole already.
(He drives off in the golf cart.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, I hate golf! It's boring to watch and tedious to play. That's why I came prepared. You think this is a normal golf bag, don't you? But when I twist this club here... (an inator appears on the green) Behold, the Accelerate-inator! With the Accelerate-inator, I can fast-forward my brother through this boring golf game in seconds. (looks through the monitor) Ah, there he is. Let's give it a shot. Fast forward!
(Song: "Platypus Walk" (instrumental))
(Roger gets zapped and quickly hits his ball at each hole.)
Doofenshmirtz (cont'd): Hee hee hee! Oh, yeah! Yeah, look at him go! Hee hee hee hee hee!
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house.  The press and others are there along with a giant red curtain next to the house with a sign over it saying "THE BIG BUST")
Candace: Welcome, everyone, to the Big Bust! Today you shall bear witness as I bust my brothers!
Everyone: Yay, metaphors!
Candace: (to a Secret Service guy) I want you to take the limo, pick up my mom and dad and bring them back, stat! (The Secret Service guy salutes and leaves.) Oh yeah!
(Cut to the backyard.)
Phineas: Well, guys, we did it. A one hundred percent historically accurate old-timey pioneer town.
Baljeet: Yes, complete with hitching posts.
Buford: (showing a snake on his hand) And snake bites.
Baljeet: (showing a huge blemish on his butt) And deer ticks.
Buford: (lifting up his shirt) And various sores I'll be nursing for months.
Phineas: Yep. It took a whole lot of toil, pain, sweat, and hard work to build this town. We should be proud.
Ferb: Let's never do that again.
Phineas: Agreed. Come on, let's go inside the house for a snack. (They walk out.)
Isabella: And air conditioning.
Buford: And indoor toilets.
(Cut to Linda and Lawrence window shopping when the limo pulls up near them.)
Chauffeur: Mr. and Mrs. Flynn? Mayor Candace urgently requests your immediate presence at the Flynn household.
Linda: And so it begins.
(Cut to Candace dialing her phone. Cut back to the limo.)
Lawrence: Oh, yes, I could certainly get used to this.
(phone rings)
Linda: Hello?
Candace: Hey, Mom!
Linda: Yes, Candace?
Candace: I was just checking to see your approximate arrival time at the Flynn household.
Linda: Candace, this isn't another rant about some imaginary thing your brothers are building, is it?
Candace: (unhinged) No, Mom! I'm not crazy! (laughs insanely) So what time?
Linda: We're just down the street. We should be home in a few minutes.
Candace: ¡Perfecto! Adieu, maman. (hangs up)
Linda: I wonder what will be waiting for me today. An invisible thing or a non-existent thing?
(The limo pulls up to the house)
Linda: (offscreen) I don't believe it! (rolls down window) What on Earth?!
Candace:  It's happening! Ladies and gentlemen, without further ado, I give you... (pulls down curtain to the Rollercoaster fanfare as cheering is heard) what you've all been waiting for!
Reporter: Look! It's a perfect metaphor that we should return to simpler times and values!
Candace: That's not exactly what I meant.
Reporter: Ha! A perfect metaphor for how history teaches us about our future!
Candace: That's pretty good, but no.
Reporter: It's a metaphor for—
Candace: NOT EVERYTHING IS A METAPHOR!!!
Linda: Candace, what on Earth is going on here?
Candace: Mom, you know all those times I've tried to fill you in on the crazy stunts Phineas and Ferb have been up to?
Linda: Yes, Candace.
Candace: Well, this is one of those times!
Linda: (gasps) Phineas!! Ferb!! Get out here this second!
(Cut to the living room where the gang is playing a video game.)
Phineas: Hey, Mom's home!
(Cut back to the Big Bust.)
Linda: I'm sorry, Candace. Now I know all the crazy exploits you told me about were true.
(Cut back to the golf game.)
Roger: Amazing! The ninth hole already? Feels like we just started and we're halfway through.
Doofenshmirtz: (laughs) This is fun! There's just...one tiny, minor flaw to this machine. There's a good chance it could tear apart the very fabric of space-time, possibly even destroy the universe. But I mean, golf, jeesh! Totally worth it. (Perry runs off) Whadaya say we amp this up a little? (Perry whacks the inator with a golf club.) What, are you out of your mind?! (The scene reverses.) !?dnim ruoy fo tuo uoy era ,tahW
(Cut back to the Big Bust.)
Linda: That is it! You two are so...
Linda and Candace: bu—
(The inator hits the event.)
—ub :ecadnaC dna adniL
...os era owt uoY !ti si tahT :adniL
Montage: During the reversal, we see Phineas and the gang in the living room, Candace revealing the town, and the parents in the limo.   At one point, a giant alien rips a hole in the universe, and Doof and Perry change into different outfits such as musketeers, cannibal and explorer, housewife and husband, and ancient Egyptians.  The reversal finally stops where we came in at the beginning of the episode.
(Scene opens up on the City Hall clock; it strikes 1:00)
Roger: And now, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pride that I announce the winner of this year's annual "Mayor For A Day" essay contest.
(Cut to Doof on the green.)
Doofenshmirtz: (groans) What is keeping Roger? He's so rude. It's a good thing I have my Accelerator— (Cut to reveal the Baby alien with his hammer near the inator.) Hey! What are you doing?!  (The baby alien destroys the inator effecting the space-time continuum once more.)
(Cut back to Roger.)
Roger: Congratulations to our own local Old Coot!
Old Coot: (approaching the podium) New law: If ya find any gold, it's mine! (spits)
Everyone: Hooray for finding gold being a metaphor for...Oh, wait. I think we're supposed to take that literally.
Candace: Pssh! I was robbed!



(Scene opens at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Phineas: Well Ferb, after that long, winded argument of yours, I agree. (shows blueprint) We'll build a Monorail to Mars! (Candace walks by) Now all we need is 36 million miles of steel--
Candace: What is wrong with you two? Can't you think of something normal to do like making a lemonade stand or picking your nose or something? (Ferb pulls out device) That better not be a nose picking machine! (Ferb puts it down) Yeah, that's right.
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?

(Scene shifts to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Agent P, I'm glad you're here. Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been hoarding all of the paper in the Tri-State Area. Find out what he's got up his sleeve, other than, apparently, an enormous amount of paper. Good luck, Agent P.(Perry salutes and leaves.)

(Switches to the interior of the Flynn-Fletcher house. The doorbell rings and Candace goes to answer the door.)
Candace: (opens the door without even looking at Stacy) So you boys just try and pull one over on me...
Stacy: Hey, Candace!
Candace: 'Cause I'm gonna be on you all day like... like a book on a shelf! No, that's stupid.
Stacy: Candace?
Candace: Like a beard on a face! Ew! No, no, no.
Stacy: Candace?
Candace: Like a light switch on a wall! That's on! Like I am! On you!
Stacy: CANDACE!! Ready to go to the mall?
Candace: The mall? Uh, uh...
(Phineas and Ferb are seen drawing up blueprints)
Phineas: Don't mind us, ladies. We're just sitting here making every day of summer count.
Candace: You know, I can't really leave right now, I mean, clearly, I'm gonna have some serious busting to do around here, and you understand, don't you?
Stacy: (Glares) No, I don't understand! We've been planning this for like three weeks! It's like four months in teenager years!
Candace: They're using protractors!
Stacy: Candace, I am tired of taking the backseat to the totally unlikely chance that you will bust your brothers. I want a best friend I can count on. So, you're gonna have to choose: It's me, or busting.
Candace: You're making me choose? You wouldn't dare.
Stacy: Yu-huh!
Candace: Yu-nothing! A real best friend would never do that to me!
Stacy: A real best friend wouldn't make me do that to her.
Candace: Then, I guess you're not my best friend.
Stacy: Not anymore. (leaves)
Candace: Fine!
Stacy: Fine!
Candace: Fine!
Stacy: Fine!
Candace: FINE!

(Switches to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
Doofenshmirtz: Finally! The plumber. The garbage disposal is stuck again. The same one you fixed last week, by the way! And while you're at it--(exclaims) Oh, who needs to see that?! Yeesh! Oh, I'll be in the other room. I mean, oh, for crying out loud--(Perry gives him the bill) What, you're done already? You've only been here for, like 15 seconds. And I was talking for, like half of that. What kind of a plumber are you?
(Perry chatters then removes the hat)
Doofenshmirtz: A platypus plumber?
(Perry puts on his fedora)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the platypus plumber?
(Perry removes the tool belt then gets into fighting position)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus?! (traps Perry in a roll of toilet paper) Ha ha, ha ha ha! Amazing what you can do with toilet paper! Which you would know, if you were a real plumber. In fact, it's amazing what you can do with all kinds of paper! (showing several stacks of paper in the background) And no, I'm not a hoarder.

(Switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: Gotcha! It's a good thing I threw away a lifelong friendship to keep an eye on you two and your ridiculous...uhhh???
Phineas: Lemonade stand. We liked your idea so much, we decided to go for it. And it's turning out to be a big hit.
Balthazar: Wow! This is the best lemonade I've ever had! Hit me again! (Ferb pours him some more lemonade)
Candace: A regular old lemonade stand? That's it? Huh. That means there's, uh, nothing for me to bust today, which means...I have a free day! Phineas and Ferb, I've got to hand it to you. Finally, I can like normal mediocre kids doing normal mediocre stuff. Thanks for giving me the day off!
(The camera then pans right to reveal a giant lemonade-making machine in the back yard. The lemonade maker then squeezes some lemons and gives a thumbs-up)

(Switches back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, that's a lot of paper. Would you like to know what I'm going to do with it all? Well, I'll tell you. (retracts a screen in front of Perry and the show begins)
Man: Birth of an inator! The wheel, the light bulb, the frozen pop with two sticks, so you can give half to a friend. All profound inventions in their time, but they fail in comparison to the Paper-Cut-Inator (shows a picture of a machine with a cannon with claws around it)...(???) of the world-renowned evil genius Doctor Heinz Doofenshmirtz!
(showing a horrible picture of the said doctor)
Doofenshmirtz: I was sick that day!
Man: This new and exciting inator turns any kind of paper, into razor sharp slicing missiles (pronounced as Mis-eye-lles) and hurls them toward an unsuspecting tri-state-area...watch out Danville!!
(one of the paper slices pokes a man)
Second man: Ouch! Something bit me!
Man: That something is evil science, tiger! Good thing the local pharmacy is fully stocked with new Doofenshmirtz Brand Adhesive bandages (shows a bandaid with the sick Doofenshmirtz face as the logo). They are terrific and expensive! And brought to you by Danville's newest soon-to be trillionaire, Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz. (the picture is seen again) Thanks, Heinz!
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, that picture's gonna haunt me.
Man: And happy evil!
Doofenshmirtz: (video off) Not bad, huh? I'm gonna do all of my Inator introductions like that from now on! It just so much more professional looking!   
(Perry rolls his eyes)

(Switches to Candace walking through the suburbs)
Candace: I'm going to the mall! I'll call Stacy. No, wait. Stacy's mad at me. And I'm mad at Stacy! But I can't go by myself. I'll look like a total dork. Okay, I'll just get a new best friend!
(Candace goes to Jenny's house and knocks. Jenny answers the front door)
Jenny: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Hey there, Jenny. As of no doubt you heard, Stacy has elected not to renew her option on being my best friend. So, as someone who has expressed interest in the past, I thought you might want to bail yourself of this exciting opportunity.
Jenny: Come on, Candace. You just want someone to go to the mall with you.
Candace: Will you go?
Jenny: Sorry, but I can't. I've got to get to the save the pigeons rally. Save the pigeons!
Candace: Okay, got to cast that net a little wider. (going through list of names in phone) Jeremy? No, I can't talk about Jeremy with Jeremy. Mad at Stacy. Jenny, pigeons. Mom? No way! Yuck! How did HE even get in here?! Delete! Okay, who next? (more rapidly at each turn) Jeremy, Stacy, Jenny, Mom. Jeremy, Stacy, Jenny, Mom. Jeremy, Stacy, Jenny, Mom. Jeremy, Stacy, Jenny, Mom. (gasps) How can I only have four friends?! And one of them's my mom!
Girl 1: Hey, best friend!
Candace: Huh?
Girl 1: I've been looking everywhere for you!
Candace: Oh, my gosh, I don't know you, but okay!
Girl 1: Come here. Let's go to the mall.
Girl 2: Hey, did you see that lonely girl?
Girl 1: Yeah, she was all by herself and singular.
(Switches back to P&F Lemonade)
Phineas: (as the customers clamor) I'm glad people are enjoying their lemonade, but it's getting really hard to keep up. We better check in with Isabella. Isabella, how is phase two coming along?
Isabella: Hold on, Phineas! (at the Fireside Girls) A little more to my left. (at Phineas) Franchise locations are a go.
Phineas: Easy, folks. Relief is on the way.
(Adyson hands some of the customers some flyers)
Adyson: Here you go.
Ballpit Kid: Hey, everyone! It says there's a new Phineas and Ferb lemonade stand opening with no wait!
(customers cheering)
Lemonade man: They have a lemonade stand inside the grocery store, the bookstore, and the mall. It's even being served on my favorite airline! (rips shirt to reveal his chest tattoo of the P&F lemonade corporation; and puts on lemonade-shaped hat) YEAH! OH, YEAH! LEMONADE! IN YOUR FACE, ORANGE JUICE! BOO-YAH! THAT'S RIGHT, BOO! YAH! LEMONADE!
Phineas: Okay, no more for that guy.

(Switches back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Let me show you my Paper Cut-inator in action!
(He steps on the edge of the toilet paper, causing Perry to spin very quickly, then shoves some paper into the Paper-Cut-inator) First, we get a piece of paper, and then we put it in and--oh! That auto-feeder. It scares me every time! Okay, Danville. Get ready for some serious minor cuts in liberations!
(The Paper-Cut-inator starts warm up while Doofenshmirtz takes out a pair of binoculars)
I wouldn't want to be getting one of those rejuvenating sea salt scrubs right now. The stinging would be unbearable! It just takes a little while to warm up.
(Perry continues spinning)

(Switches to Candace, sadly walking through Danville,not noticing P&F lemonade franchises signs)
Candace: Wow! Finding a new best friend is even harder than I thought! Makes me kinda miss Stacy! Why did I let our friendship go?
(Song: "You're My Better Best Friend")
♪ Today I've learned a lesson, ♪
♪ What a best friend shouldn't do, ♪
♪ I put busting my brothers ♪
♪ Ahead of you, ♪
♪ You were always there for me, ♪
♪ On you I could depend, ♪
♪ And now, too late, I realize ♪
♪ I should've been a better best friend! ♪
♪ (Ooh-wow-wow-wow-wow) ♪
♪ I said things I shouldn't have, ♪
♪ Did things I shouldn't do, ♪
♪ Guess I forgot that you cannot ♪
♪ Spell "us" without "U" ♪
(Candace somberly drinks some lemonade she has bought from Buford)
Buford: So you lost your best friend, huh? Yeah, I know how you feel. I lost my best friend once. Little guy, all yellow-y and scaly. His name was Biff, turned into this whole brouhaha. I had to fight a squid.
(record needle scratches)
Candace: Wait a min--wait a minute, what you're trying to say is that if Stacy is really my best friend, I should just apologize to her. And if I'm really Stacy's best friend, she'll take me back! (runs off)
Buford: Oh, sure! It's all about you!
Candace: It's not too late to fix this! I can still have a best friend forever! Stacy, there she is! Right next to the Phineas... and Ferb... Lemonade stand. (looks at the cup she has been drinking from, realizing she has been drinking from Phineas and Ferb Lemonade, followed by several of the P&F lemonade franchises, until finally stopping at a beauty salon where some one is doing Linda's hair) Mom! I'll tell mom! But wait! Stacy! Mom! Stacy! Mom! Stacy! Mom! Stacy! Stom! Macy! Seven! Wolverine! Shish kebab! Marmalade! Hominahaa... (mutters indistinctly)

(Switches to D.E.I., where the Paper-Cut-inator is still warming up)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, it's almost warmed up. Are you watching Perry the-- What? What the...?
(Perry ceases spinning and rips the toilet paper roll in two, freeing himself)
Doofenshmirtz: How did you get out of that!? It's two ply!
(Perry throws spitballs at Doofenshmirtz while his theme song plays instrumentally in the background)
Doofenshmirtz: Ow! Spitballs? Oh, I get it. Paper fight! (makes a figure used in paper football and throws it at Perry who ducks and raises two arms as the paper football flies between his arms) GOAL!!!
(Perry makes a paper fortune teller and uses it against Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: I am NOT in love with Sophie! I am not! Oh, you're gonna get it now, Perry the Platypus! (puts on paper hat) Boom! (no effect) Well, that doesn't do much. I'm gonna get you with the Paper-Cut-inator! (trips) Flypaper? Well, it doesn't matter! Look!
(Paper-Cut-inator emits one slip of paper, while a "thump" sound is heard)
Doofenshmirtz: One piece? That's it?
(Perry puts a plunger in the auto-feeder)
Doofenshmirtz: A plunger jam?! Ah, I hate those! They always make the Paper-Cut-Inator-- (Hundreds of paper slices fly around Doofenshmirtz injuring him all around) EEEEEEE-Explode! Curse you, Perry the Platypus!

(the slip of paper gives the lemonade-making machine a paper cut)
Lemonade-Making Machine: (squeezes lemons which squirt in the paper cut) LEMON JUICE! (It malfunctions, causing all P&F lemonade stands to go out of business)
Phineas: Sorry, folks, we're sold out!
(Crowd groans in disappointment)
Buford: Go home, you losers, we're dry!
Crowd: (groaning in disappointment)
Buford: Biff (sobbing)
(Switches to a street corner where Linda meets Candace, while she sees Stacy boarding a bus)
Linda: Hey, Candace, isn't that Stacy over there? Hi, Stacy.
Stacy: (looks at Candace)
Linda: You okay, honey?
Bus driver: Come on, kid. I'm on a schedule.
Candace: (looks at the lemonade stands)
Bus driver: Come on, kid. In, or out?
(A blimp is seen deflating in the background)
Linda: Candace?
Candace: Mom, there's something I got to tell you.
Linda: What is it, honey?
Candace: That if you want me, I'll be at the mall with Stacy.
Linda: Um...okay.
Stacy: (as she and Candace board the bus) Welcome back, best friend.
Candace: Thanks, best friend.
Stacy: I have had my eye on the cutest pink dress for you.
(bus departing)
Linda: Aww. It's nice to see Candace enjoying herself for a change. Now, where are those lemonade stands I keep hearing about?
(Switches to the Flynn-Fletcher house once more)
Phineas: Well, Ferb, I think it's time to shut her down.
Ferb: (claps twice)
(The lemonade-making machine diverts back into the original backyard the second Linda's car pulls up)
Linda: Hi, boys. So, what did you two do today?
Ferb: Just normal, mediocre kid stuff.
Linda: Sounds great.
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
(Perry chatters)

(Switches to Evil Incorporated once more)
Vanessa: Hey, Dad! I just got some great lemonade from the new stand down the street. It's really sour. Do you want to--(slips on some paper; exclaims)
Doofenshmirtz: (screaming)
(lemonade spilling)
OW, THAT SMARTS, PERRY THE PLATYPUS!
Vanessa: Uh, Dad? You know he's not here, right?
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, I know, but I'm sure it's his fault.

End Credits
(Song: "You're My Better Best Friend")
♪ I said things I shouldn't have, ♪
♪ Did things I shouldn't do, ♪
♪ Guess I forgot that you cannot ♪
♪ Spell "us" without "U" ♪
Buford: So you lost your best friend, huh? Yeah, I know how you feel. I lost my best friend once. Little guy, all yellow-y and scaly. His name was Biff, turned into this whole brouhaha. I had to fight a squid.
♪ Wah, wah, wah, wah! ♪



Part I
(Hawaiian music playing in the background)
Pilot: (while an airplane makes its landing) Ladies and gentlemen, we'll be touching down in Hawaii momentarily, but remember aloha means "hello" and "good bye". Try not to get the two confused.
(Scene shifts to the exterior of the hotel)
Wahanies: Aloha!
Candace, Lawrence, Linda, Ferb, and Phineas: Aloha!
Lawrence: I do hope that was hello.
Phineas: Wow, I've always wanted a vacation this close to a volcanic hot-spot. Do you smell what I smell, Ferb?
Ferb: (sniffs) Hmm-mmm. Magma.
Linda: Your father and I are looking forward to the Annual Couple's Surfing Contest.
Lawrence: Oh, I can't wait to wipe out!
Linda: Dear, "wipe out" means falling off the board.
Lawrence: Yes, I know.
Candace: Well, there's only one thing I'm saying hello-ha to! Relaxing! And taking a break from trying to bust Phineas and Ferb.
(the rest of the family stares at her)
Candace: What? It's hard work!
(Scene shifts to the interior of the hotel)
Linda: Come on, kids. Let's check out the gift shop while your father checks us in.
(She, Phineas, Ferb, and Candace does so.)
Lawrence: Well, I am a little rusty on my Hawaiian, but here goes. Buenos dias, señor. Me llamo Lawrence. (Good day, sir. My name is Lawrence.)
Hotel Manager: Oh, no, no. That’s not necessary. We speak English here. Hawaii is part of the United States.
Lawrence: Is it really? (pauses) How remarkable. Well, we're the Flynn-Fletcher family. Two adults, three children, (holding up a pet carrier with Perry inside it) and our pet platypus, Perry.
Hotel Manager: Excellent. Why don't you join your family while I get the bellhop to attend to your bags?
Lawrence: Wonderful.
Hotel Manager: (on the phone) Help desk. Can we get a bell person in to pick up the family's bags and platypus. (pauses, then notices the now empty pet carrier) Oh, hey, where's Perry?

Major Monogram: (via a screen on a Tiki statue) Aloha, Agent P. I see you're able to subliminally persuade your host family to take their vacation in Hawaii. Still have no idea how you managed to do that.
(Flashback; Flynn-Fletcher home...)
Lawrence: Okay, I'll decide where we go on vacation as soon as I clean out Perry's litter box. (looks into the litter box with the Hawaiian islands drawn on it) Hey, how about Hawaii?
(End flashback)
Major Monogram: As you know, Doofenshmirtz is in the area of the Big Island. He's obviously up to no good. Find out what's he up to and put a stop to it.
Carl: (off screen) Sir?
Major Monogram: Uh... I promised Carl to get him one of those hula wigglers for his dashboard. He thinks it would be neat.

(Candace, Phineas, and Ferb are browsing around the gift shop)
Candace: Hey, what's this? Pineapple scented serenity lotion with SPF. "Apply and feel instantly serene". (to Linda) Mom! I totally need the serenity lotion!
Phineas: Check this out. "Aqua Primates". A-Primes, Ferb. (flips the box over) The back of the box shows them crowning the queen, fighting robots, and designing websites. Ferb, we've totally got to get this! Hey, not to be redundant, but... Where's Perry?

♪ Perry! ♪
(Scene shifts to Pink Unicorn Island)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? Well, first of all, I just want to state for the record that this island was not my first choice. I wanted Skull Island right over there, but it was already booked for Jacob Bernstein's Bar Mitzvah, and so all there was available was... Pink Unicorn Island.
(pan flute)
So go ahead and laugh it up. (Perry smirks) I will say this was considerably cheaper than Skull Island and look! (holds up a pink bathrobe with a pink unicorn embroidered on it) I get to keep the robe! (drops the bathrobe) Oh, where are my manners! Aloha! (drapes a lei over Perry) That's Hawaiian for... (the lei quickly binds Perry, who glares at him) you're trapped! And why am I here? you ask. See these little, mini volcanoes? They contain a certain primordial ooze I need for my latest evil device. Behold, the De-Evolutionator! I... don't know why it looks kind of looks like a giant fish bone. It's just how it came in the kit. (pours the ooze into a pan, then tosses the bucket) When I unleash this baby on the Tri-State Area, it will make every man, woman, and child moonwalk backwards down the evolutionary chain, finally stopping at a wimpy little Pliopithecus. (singsong voice) Ooo, I'm Pliopithecus. I'm not evolved enough to stop a modern man like Doofenshmirtz. (laughs) And that's when I swoop back into town and take over. Isn't that just Darwin?

(Meanwhile, at the hotel...)
Candace: Preparing to relax. (walks out of the hotel) Boy, do I need this.... Ooh, why is there so many people here? ... Wait! Wait! One last chair! Excuse me! I was here first!
(Candace struggles to get herself unstuck from a beach chair, then sighs)
Relaxation.... Come to me, serenity.
(Scene shifts to one of the hotel rooms)
Phineas: Okay. Well, the A-Primes hatched, but they're really tiny. And it looks like they only do one trick: moving toward a light source. As impressive as it is, I bet if they were human sized, they can do all this stuff on the box. Hmmm. Ferb, do we have any more of that growth elixir?
(Ferb nods his head)
(Outside the hotel...)
Phineas: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Phineas, I don't care if it's a Ferris wheel to Jupiter or a bionic meatloaf. I'm going to relax. Now go ahead. Run along.
Phineas: Okay, Ferb. Time to dump them in.
Lifeguard: Hey, what are you two kids doin'?
Phineas: We're putting our A-Primes in the pool before they outgrow their container. Is that against the rules?
Lifeguard: Well, let's see. (reads the rules from a board) "No running, diving, pushing, or modern expressionism". Nope, nothing here. You guys are good to go.
Phineas:Cool. (at Ferb) Let's add the A-Primes.
(Song: A-Prime Calypso)
♪ Come along with me my friends ♪
♪ We're going where the party never ends ♪
♪ Here underneath the sea ♪
♪ An aquatic jubilee! ♪
♪ Well, my hands are like prunes ♪
♪ Eatin' mussels from a spoon ♪
♪ Do the A-Prime calypso with me ♪
♪ We're underwater kin ♪
♪ A maritime simian ♪
♪ Do the A-Prime calypso with me ♪
♪ Now, don't you be a wimp ♪
♪ Grab some dried, brine shrimp ♪
♪ And mix it with some H2O-o ♪
♪ Then put it in a beaker ♪
♪ Or maybe in a sneaker ♪
♪ Watch the aqueous prime-time show! ♪
♪ Well, my hands are like prunes ♪
♪ Eatin' mussels from a spoon ♪
♪ Do the A-Prime calypso with me ♪
♪ We're underwater kin ♪
♪ A maritime simian ♪
♪ Do the A-Prime calypso with me ♪
♪ Now, here's a real rocker ♪
♪ Straight from Davy Jones's locker ♪
♪ Do the A-Prime calypso with me ♪
♪ Do the A-Prime... ♪
♪ Calypso... ♪
♪ With meeeeeeeee! ♪
Candace: Alright, Candace. You're finally doing it. Relaxing. It's all good.
Yoga Instructor: Aloha, molihini, or guests. In the spirit of lalauea, or peaceful relaxation, let me be your kumu, or teacher, in an outdoor yoga class free for hotel guests.
Candace: Pathetic, isn't it? Some people don't have the discipline to relax on their own. They need to take a— Oh, who are you kidding? You're taking the class. A little extra serenity can't hurt. (covers herself with the serenity lotion) Oh, this stuff is slippery!
Yoga Instructor: Everybody, find a mat. So, let's start with a gentle standing back bend.
Candace: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! (falls backwards into the pool)
(Candace and the A-Primes scream. The A-Primes jumps out of the pool then runs into the hotel.)
Phineas: Uh, oh! Improbable creature wrangling time.
Candace: I knew it! I knew my obnoxious brothers would ruin my relaxation!

(Scene shifts to Pink Unicorn Island)
Doofenshmirtz: (shooing some cats away) Shoo, shoo! Get out of here! It's not a real fish! (at Perry) As I was saying, the De-Evolutionator will blast past the Pacific Ocean, bounce off the satellite, and completely blanket the Tri-State area, de-evolving everyone!
(Perry glares)
How are we doing in the back row? Can you see okay? Alright; away we go! (turns the knob on a controller to "de-evolve", but nothing happens) Oh, for badness sake! What now? (climbs up to the lens) Oh, I see. It's.. it's a little smear on the lens. I just... (wipes away the smear)
(The machine fires a green glowing ray that hits him in the face, transforming him into a monkey. He screeches angrily and jumps away. The ray then hits Perry, who is now a Cave Platypus. Cave Perry throws a bone that hits the machine and knocks it down. The ray starts firing wildly, hitting Perry more often than not as the two fight as they bounce up and down on the evolutionary scale.)

(Inside the hotel...)
Hotel Manager: (to the A-Primes) Oh, um, excuse me. Excuse me!
Phineas: Hey, mister. Have you seen a group of giant, wet aqua primates running through here?
Hotel Manager: (pointing to the right) Elevator!
Phineas: Thanks!
Hotel Manager: Hey!
Candace: You two are so busted!
Hotel Manager: Hold it right there, young lady! I'm the manager of this hotel, and if there's going to be any busting to do, I'm going to do it.
Candace: But... but... but... but... Wait, a minute. I'm on vacation, he is working. I pass the bust baton to you, sir! Aloha! (sighs in contentment)
Phineas: (while he and Ferb case after the A-Primes) Come back here! ... Stop!
Hotel Manager: Stop right there, young men! What is the meaning of this?
Phineas: Uh... I'm not sure I understand your question.
Hotel Manager: (at the A-Primes) Stop! Come back here!
Phineas: Wow. For someone living in Hawaii, he's awfully stressed.

(Scene shifts to Pink Unicorn Island)
Doofenshmirtz:  (noticing the size of his right ear) Okay. This I don't even get.

(Back at the hotel...)
Candace: Alright, Candace. You're finally doing it. Relaxing.
Hotel Manager: (to the A-Primes) Come back here! Stop!
(In Phineas and Ferb's hotel room)
Phineas: How are we going to round up the A-Primes?
(Ferb picks up a phone)
Ferb: Hello? Room service?
(Outside of the hotel)
Hotel Manager: Please? I'm going to call your mother!
Candace: 555-0142!
(Linda's cell phone rings)
Linda: (via recording) Hello, you've reached Linda Flynn-Fletcher, and if this is Candace, I'm sure that what ever the boys are doing, is nothing.
Hotel Manager: (growls in frustration)
(Scene shifts to the Annual Couple's Surfing Contest)
Linda: Hon, Doc. Folberg and his wife are trying to drop in our wave.
Lawrence: Ooo, those crazy coots! I'll just do an old-school drop de-turn on them, eh? Cut back up on the face, through the sloop, do a nice inner tail, and drop into the green room for a bit of tune time.
Linda: You got that off the Internet, didn’t you?
Lawrence: Yes, yes I did.
Linda: Cowabunga!

(Back at Pink Unicorn Island...)
Doofenshmirtz: What? What is it? Oh, great. Now I'm a single-celled organism. Now how am I going to drive home?

(Scene shifts back to the hotel)
(A male hotel worker comes outside, pulling a dolly with a giant flashlight on it)
Hotel Worker: You boys ordered a giant flashlight from room service?
Phineas: Yep.
Hotel Worker: You're in luck. We're just about to take that off the menu.
Phineas: (signs the form then hands it to the hotel worker) Here. (at Ferb) Let's switch this baby on. (switches the giant flashlight on) Hopefully the A-Primes haven't forgotten their one trick.
(The A-Primes peers through the doorway then walks out of the hotel)
It's working! They're moving towards the light.
Hotel Manager: Are you Mrs. Flynn-Fletcher?
Linda: Yes?
Hotel Manager: Your boys are doing something in the back, and you have to see it.

(Scenes shifts to Pink Unicorn Island)
Doofenshmirtz: No, wait! Don't throw that out! No! Curse you, Perry the Platypus!

(Back at the hotel...)
Hotel Manager: Perfect. They're still here. (to Linda) Come quick! Come look! .... See? Look at the slimy, disgusting creatures.
(sees the A-Primes turn into humans)
Linda: Well, that's not a very nice thing to say.
Phineas: Hi, Mom.
Linda: Hi, boys.
Candace: (giggling) Yeah.
Hotel Manager: But... but... but... but there were all these...
Linda: My apologies if my daughter put you up to this. (at the boys and Candace) We'll be upstairs, kids.
(Hotel Manager groans)
Candace: Oh, dude. I know, right?

Part II
(Hawaiian music playing in the background)
Linda: I'm starting to get the hang of it. I think this motion refers to the swaying of the palm trees.
Lawrence: Oh, yeah; and this motion says this Brit can move it! I wonder how the boys are doing.
(Upbeat Hawaiian music; chanting)
Phineas: Nicely done, bro. We’re becoming quite the islanders.
(At the beach...)
Candace: (at a sand sculpture of Jeremy) Oh, Jeremy. I must be the luckiest girl in Hawaii.
(The sand sculpture gets run over by a wave; she then notices a tiki charm.)
What is that? (picks up tiki charm and puts it on) Ooh, a good luck charm! (mysterious music plays and the tiki charm glows) With its own theme music.

(At the bottom of the ocean)
Doofenshmirtz: Who could've guessed my De-Evolutionator would backfire on me?
(The other amoeba raise their hands.)
Alright! Put your psudopods down. Hey, what's that? My De-Evolutionator. Right there on the ocean floor. If it's still working, I can throw it in reverse, fast forward, and evolve back to my former wickedness! It's a good thing I installed this molecular scale control panel. It seemed frivolous at the time, but I'm glad I did it. And... (evolves back into his normal self, then swims to a nearby island) Ugh. Phew. It's strange that my underwear and socks evolved with me.

(Scene shifts to a surfing rental shop)
Candace: Aloha, bros.
Phineas: Hey, Candace. Cool necklace. Where did you get it?
Candace: Ah, you like it? It's my lucky charm. It was delivered to me by tranquil, Hawaiian waves. What are you up to?
Phineas: Well; we've done our share of terrain-based activities, so we’re going to try some semi-aquatic endeavors.
Candace: Speaking of semi-aquatic... Where's Perry?

(action music)
Major Monogram: Agent P. We still don't know the current whereabouts of Dr. Doofenshmirtz, but we're picking up a strange signal from the island of Wa Ta Lot Ta Hoie. It could be a (???) for the missing De-Evolutionator. (folds up the map) You better investigate. Good luck, Agent P. (at Carl) Carl, more ice!
Carl: Coming, sir.
(On the deserted island....)
Doofenshmirtz: With the De-Evolution-inator back in my hands, I can reverse the settings, and I'll have the most highly evolved brain on earth! (hits himself with the De-Evolutionator, only to have his head swell up) Now that I'm so smart, I don't think it was such a good idea.

(Scene shifts to the beach... and the hotel)
Candace: Oh, my precious, little good luck charm. I'm so glad I found you. (trips over a tackle box) Whoa! (face plants into the sand) Well. AAAAAAAHHH!!
Single Guy: If this wasn't meant to be, someone give me a sign?
Candace: (background voice) No, no, no, no, no! (slams into the window)
Single Guy: Well that's good enough for me. This single guy is out, peace!
Candace: Oh, my gosh. I could've been killed. I’m so glad I have my lucky charm. You totally saved my life.
Waiter: (screams)
Candace: Agh! Well; that could've been a lot worse, but thanks to my lucky charm I can-- ... No worries! I got my lucky charm on. (screams) ... Well, I guess it could've been worse. ... Okay, that does it. This thing is totally bad luck. ... Well; little amulet, this girl doesn't any more misfortune. So bye-bye, bad luck! (tosses tiki charm into garbage can; mysterious music plays) Over it!
Hotel Manager: Ooh, nice necklace.
Candace:What?!? How’d this get back on! (screams) ... (at a native) Please help me! How do I get rid of this?
Native: You must take it to the island of Wa Ta Lot Ta Hoie to the top of the volcano, and...
Candace: Of course! It can only be destroyed if the first which it was formed. Hold on, volcano! I'm a-comin'!
Native: We work for tips, you know! (at himself) And, she's gone.
(Scene shifts to a pier)
Candace: Hey, I need a ride to Wa Ta Lot Ta Hoie?
Man: Sure, just grab that tow line.
Candace: Tow line? Do you mean... this? ... Hey, wait! Why is this happening to me? No more bad luck!
(After taking the tiki charm off, Candace throws it into the ocean. Unfortunately, the cord eventually wrapped itself around the propellers of Perry's submarine.)
(sirens; explosion)

Candace: AAAAAAAAAAAAHHH!!
Phineas: Wow, sis. Way to hang loose!
Laird: Cowabunga, kids!
Phineas: Laird Hamilton?
Laird: Last I checked. Say, aren't you dudes a little young to be riding this kinda surf?
Ferb: No worries, bro! We're just gonna hot dog this honker past the bone-yard to the sand.
Phineas: You got that off the Internet, didn't you?
Ferb: Yes, yes I did.
Laird: Alright, then. Hang loose, kooks. (at Candace) Later, wahanie.
Phineas: Hang ten, water man! (at Candace) See you on shore, Candace!
Candace: I'm doomed. (ends up on shore with a manta ray stuck to her head) I'm cursed. (at the boys) Phineas, Ferb, I need your help. I can't get rid of this tiki charm.
Phineas: Um, personally I'd be a little more worried about that manta ray stuck to your head.
Candace: What? (looks up) Ugh. You know, after the day I've been having, I didn't even notice.
Phineas: Here, Candace. Let's us get rid of it for you.
Candace: That won't work. Every time I try to get rid of it, my luck gets even worse.
Phineas: No worries, Candace. (takes the tiki charm from her then tosses it away) See? Nothing! No bad luck. Perfectly fine.
Candace: But... but... but... but...
Laird: Wow, you got pounded. Let me give you a hand. (pulls the manta ray off Candace's head then throws it into the water) Looks you could use a little luck. (gives Candace the tiki charm) Here, I found this on the beach. (at the boys) Later, dawgs.
Phineas: Later, brah!
Candace: See, it's back.
Phineas: What can we do to help?
Candace: We need to get to the top that volcano and throw it in.
Phineas: Alright then. I know what we're gonna do today!

(On a deserted island....)
Doofenshmirtz: Being stranded on a deserted island is much easier with a normal sized head. Oh, I got something. ... It works! I found a platypus!
(Perry removes a crab from his fedora, then puts it on)
Doofenshmirtz: (gasps) Perry the Platypus!?!
..........
Doofenshmirtz: Just because we're stranded on a deserted island, doesn't mean we should abandon our normal lives, don't you think? Because then the Tiki gods would win! (pauses) So, I made myself supreme ruler of the Tri-Coconut Area when no one was looking. It stretches all the way from the big rock over there where I'm drying my socks and undies to those three coconut trees at the end of the beach. And I have my minions. Look, if they don't obey, I eat them. What's that look?
(camera pans to the De-Evolutionator)
Oh, you're looking at the De-Evolutionator. Is that why you're here? Well, don't worry about that. I had to disable it. It was doing bad things to my head, man. I keep it around for the crabs. They really seem to like it.... I know. Weird, huh? They get all Kubrick-y on it.
(notices that Perry escaped from the trap)
Hey! ... Okay, fine! Go ahead along! See if I care, but your little webbed feet away from my... (a crab pinches his finger) Ow! Oh, you're so going to be crab cocktail.

(Song: Bad Luck)
♪ When the day began you had the wind in your sail, ♪
♪ Things were going your way, you thought you just couldn't fail, ♪
♪ Now you're walkin' around, like you're under a curse, ♪
♪ And you don't know how this day could get any worse ♪
♪ Bad luck ♪
♪ A dark cloud you're standin' under ♪
♪ Bad luck (bad luck) ♪
♪ Wait, do I hear thunder? ♪
♪ Bad luck (bad luck) ♪
♪ Well you can try and try, but bad luck is gonna get you and ya don't know why ♪
♪ Bad luck ♪
♪ Could it be any clearer ♪
♪ Bad luck (bad luck) ♪
♪ Like you just broke a mirror ♪
♪ Bad luck (bad luck) ♪
♪ Did you walk under a ladder? ♪
♪ 'Cause your luck was just bad, but it's just getting badder ♪
♪ Bad luck! ♪

(Scene shifts to the deserted island)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Perry the Platypus! I'm drawing a line in the sand. You are not allow to cross this line.
(A coconut falls from a palm tree. Perry, holding a tray of fruit, comes to pick it up.)
Ooo, refreshments!
(Perry picks up the coconut then places it on the tray)
Where you get that? Could I... Could I have some? (pauses) What, the line? (erases part of the line) Oh, look, I was just kidding about it. Look! Look! Look! It's not a real line.
(Perry ignores him as he walks away)
It's not a barrier. Aw, come on!
..........
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Perry the Smarty-pus! (Perry quickly looks up) Feast your eyes on this! Behold, the Sand-inator! (Perry glares) I bet you're wondering what it does, huh? Huh? Well... Well, it's easy. It causes great, irritating sand to wedge itself into your swim trunks, causing it to chaff, get a rash, and have a lousy day at the beach. How do you like...?
(Perry stands up, revealing that he isn't wearing any swim trunks)
Hah, you don't wear trunks. What is that? A European thing? (gets hit by an incoming wave) Oh, hey it works. I have sand in my trunks and it's really irritating.
.........
Doofenshmirtz: I may be starving and dying of thirst, but at least I got my hovel. What does he got? Nothing! He's a platypus. They've... got like... webbed fingers and no opposable thumbs. Practically flippers.
(Caribbean music)
But... but... What? Those are my minions! Whoa, whoa, whoa! Traitors!

(Scene shifts to Candace, Phineas, and Ferb climbing up the volcano)
Candace: Are we there yet?
Phineas: For safety sake, I think Ferb and I should check out the scene before you go up.
Candace: Oh, yeah. Whatever you say. I'm not taking any more chances.
(Sunset...)
Candace: What's taking them so long? Phineas? Ferb? Oh, no. ... Uh?
(Hawaiian music)
Linda: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Mom?
Phineas: (holding some tiki charms) Check it out, Candace. There's tons of these.
Native: Hey, wahanie. Looks like you took the long way. Most people take the escalator, you know.
Candace: No! No! I can't handle any more bad luck.
Native: It's not bad luck. That just means your table is ready. Let's see what other luck it brings you.... Ah, looks someone's getting a free dessert, huh?
Candace: No way, I don't want anything of that necklace brings me. Goodbye, good riddance, Candace is out, peace!
Laird: I'll take that free dessert if you're not going to eat it.
Candace: No thanks. I just glad I got rid of... that... bad... luck.

(Meanwhile, with Doofenshmirtz and Perry...)
Doofenshmirtz: I've got to get off this island. What I need is a BO-AT, or boat as I now been told how it's been pronounced. (notices Perry, who's loading bags of coconuts onto a boat) Oh, look! A BO-AT! ... A boat! (at Perry) Ah, Perry the Platypus. I've decided that our efforts would be better spent if we work together to get off the island. Here, let me help with it.
(picks up one of the bags, throws it on Perry, and then steals the boat)
You don't mind if I borrow your boat. (laughs)
Major Monogram: (emerging from the sand) Nice work, Agent P. Agent W will take it from here. (at Agent W via wristwatch communicator) Rubber ducky is in the water. Over. (at Perry) Uh... What do you say we get something to eat? I hear there's this great restaurant on the other side of the island. (holds up a tiki charm) I found one of these. Maybe we'll get a free dessert.

(Scene shifts to Candace, still on the escalator.)
Candace: Aah! Ow! Oh, there you are, Perry.

End Credits
Doofenshmirtz: Ha, ah! So long, Perry the Sucker-pus! Look after my minions! (at himself) Those little traitors! (pauses) Oh, for crying out loud!
♪ Agent W! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (muffled) Curse you, Perry the Platypus! (at a coconut and a pelican) Listen up, both of you. Let's get one thing straight. I am supreme ruler of this place and don't you forget it!
(The pelican bites Doofenshmirtz's nose, who screams in pain)



Contents[show]
Act I
(The show's logo zooms in, acting as the sun with the Episode's title and the names of the creators)
♪ Summer belongs to you! ♪
(Scene opens showing Candace dialing a number on her cell phone before suddenly switching to Jeremy, who is in bed, sleeping. His phone rings and he picks it up.)
Jeremy: Uhh, hello?
Candace: Hey, Jeremy! It's me, Candace!
Jeremy: Oh, hi Candace. You realize it's like... 2am in Paris.
Candace: Oops! Ahahah... Sorry... I... was just wondering how your vacation's going.
Jeremy: Actually, it's funny you called because you were in my dream just now.
Candace: (Excited) Really?
(Candace hears a rumble from outside)
Jeremy: Yeah, it was weird... You and I were in this Dixieland band and there was an iguana playing an oboe...
(Another rumble is heard)
Candace: I gotta go, Jeremy. I'll call you later. (Runs outside, calling someone else) Mom! Do you hear that?
Linda: I can't hear anything over all this road construction.
Candace: (As she talks the robot is jumping behind her causing her to pause a few times) But Mom, they've built a giant...rope jumping robot and it's... Phineas will you turn that thing off? I'm trying to bust you!
Phineas: We can't, its become self-aware! The jump roping was his idea!
(car horn)
Candace: Mom!
(Linda pulls up)
Candace: Mom! Mom!
Linda: Okay, I'm here. What did you wanna tell me?
Candace: Backyard now!
Linda: (Slightly irritated) Excuse me?
Candace: Backyard now, please?
Robot: I jump, therefore I am.
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
Candace: Right back here, Mom! (eyes closed) Look, there they are.
(The robot has suddenly disappeared)
Linda: Hi, kids. Did you have fun today?
Phineas: Yes, yes we did.
Linda: Good for you. I would've been home sooner, but it took me an hour to drive around the road construction in the neighborhood. It sure would be helpful if they could just make the days a little longer. (chuckles) Who do I call about that?
(A text appears that says "You're watching TV!" and a "DING" can be heard)
Phineas: Hey, do you mind? We have a visual gag going on here. (It disappears to reveal Ferb used a triangle to make the noise) Thank you! (To Ferb) Our vacation is more than halfway over, and what have we accomplished? Okay, so we built a rollercoaster, we traveled through time twice, found Atlantis, blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, see? We've hardly done anything! We need a real challenge. We need to create the biggest, longest, funnest summer day of all time!
(A fanfare is heard and the camera pans out to reveal it was Ferb playing brass instruments)
Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
♪ Doofenshmirtz in a Jet Airplane! ♪
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: Well, Vanessa, are you looking forward to seeing Tokyo on our daddy-daughter trip?
Vanessa: Yeah... I was really hoping for Paris. I mean, I did drop all those hints, but I guess Tokyo is more exotic.
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: Yes, that's why I chose Japan over Paris at the last moment! That makes perfect sense. There is no other ulterior motive behind it all, so, you know...
Airplane Captain: Uh, this is your captain speaking, we're expecting a slight delay for our arrival to Tokyo.
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: That's always something. Turbulence, headwinds, giant jump-roping robots...
Robot: (Hanging on the jet airplane) I dangle, therefore, I am...
(Scene shifts to the master bedroom)
Candace: So Mom, while you're away, I'm in charge, right? For two whole days?
Linda: That's right. Remember, no boys over.
Candace: Of course, Mom. Jeremy's in Paris anyway. So... When you say I'm in charge, what exactly do you mean by that?
Linda: Well, to put it simply, I mean, "You're in charge."
Candace: So if Phineas and Ferb are up to something bust-worthy, and I am, as you say... "In charge", I have free reign to call you as many times as necessary?
Lawrence: Quite the contrary, Candace. Being in charge means you handle things yourself.
Linda: Yup. Basically, if you're really in charge, you won't need to call at all. You see, if the boys are doing something bust-worthy, that means you're not doing your job and you would be in trouble too.
Candace: Woah, woah, heavy! By busting the boys, I bust myself?
Lawrence: Ah, there's the rub. Right next to the pair o' ducks. I'm also packing this book of puns!
(Outside of the house...)
Linda: Bye kids!
Candace: Bye, Mom! Bye, Dad! Have a nice time!
Phineas: Have a successful endeavor!
(Later; in Candace's room...)
Candace: (Dreaming) Paris... French girls and... Jeremy... Iguana playing an oboe... (She sits up and calls someone) Stacy? I am freaking out here!
(On the other line)
Stacy: Ugh... I'll be right over.
Candace: Cool! Thanks! And could you bring some breakfast? (Stacy hangs up) Hello?
(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Isabella: So Phineas, whatcha doin'... Up so early?
Phineas: Today is the summer solstice, the longest day of the year! And Ferb and I are gonna make it even longer.
Isabella: So you built the Statue of Liberty?
Phineas: No... (Sees his invention in shape of the Statue of Liberty) Oh, wow. That is weird. (He removes the sheet cover) Behold! The Amazing Sun-Beater 3000!
Isabella/Fireside Girls: Wow! Amazing!
Buford: It's a name followed by a big number!
Phineas: It's fast and it runs on vegetable oil, so it's environmentally friendly. In this ship, we will travel around the world as the sun does, making this, the longest day of summer, even longer! That'll give us twenty-four hours of continuous daylight; and add the extra fifteen hours we would've had anyway, that's almost a forty-hour day!
Buford: It can't be done! There's only twenty-four hours in a day and that's that!
Phineas: Well, yes and no. You see, Buford, if you define the day by the passage of the sun, and we follow the sun by traveling around the...
Buford: Nah, nah! Don't try to confuse me with your sorcerous ways. There's nothin' I've ever seen that would make me believe you could pull this off. Except for that time-machine thing, and oh, and the rollercoaster! But other than that, nothin'! Oh, and the time you played that song when the platypus came back, oh... Man, nature just bends to your will, doesn't it?
Phineas: Yeah, nothing's impossible if you believe you could do it.
Buford: Well, I don't believe and therefore it's impossible. And what's more, I bet you can't do it!
Phineas: You bet us?
Buford: Yeah, I bet you! And if you lose, you're gonna have to stand up in front of everyone and say that you are governed by the laws of physics and summer's not whatever you want to make of it. And what's more, you've gonna spend the rest of your summer doin' nothin'!
Phineas: And what happens when we win?
Buford: Hmmm... I'll eat a bug.
Phineas: Buford, you'd eat a bug right now if we asked.
Buford: Are you asking?
Phineas: No.
Buford: All right. How about I give you back your bike I took when we were little?
Phineas: My bike!
(Flashback)
Baby Phineas: Bu gaga gu...
Baby Buford: Mine!
Baby Phineas: No... Bu gaga gu.
(Flashback ends)
Phineas: How about this? When we make it back here before the sun sets, you gotta give everyone their bikes back.
Random man: Mine was the one with the unusually large front wheel.
Buford: I still get to eat the bug though, right?
Phineas: Sure thing, Buford.
Buford: I want the bug.
Isabella: Phineas, what are you doing? You're putting your entire world view on the line. And for what? A bunch of bikes?
Buford: And a bug!
Phineas: Isabella, it isn't about the bikes. It's about my world view. You see, we all gotta ask ourselves just one question.
(Song: "I Believe We Can")
(Lyrics in parentheses are background vocals sung by Chaka Khan)
Clay Aiken: ♪ What is a summer really ♪
♪ But a tepid month or 3? ♪
Ferb: Clay Aiken?
Phineas: Yeah. I hired a stunt singer, what do you think?
Clay Aiken: ♪ If you agree with Buford ♪
♪ That's all it will ever be ♪
♪ And we don't need to break the laws of physics ♪
♪ To make a day that's longer than a day ♪
♪ We can follow that old sun 'round the circumference of the globe ♪
♪ And stop all the naysayers from nay-say... ing ♪
♪ 'Cause I believe we can ♪
♪ And that's the measure, the measure of a man ♪
♪ It may sound far-fetched, this thing we've got planned ♪
♪ But I believe we can ♪
♪ I believe we can (Ooh, I believe we can) ♪
♪ And that's the measure, the measure of a man (Oh, that's the measure of a man) ♪
Phineas: (To Ferb) Chaka Khan. Nice.
♪ We'll make it back here (We'll make it back here) to where we began... (Oh...) ♪
(One of the plane's wings falls off)
Phineas: ♪ Or at least that's the plan! ♪
(Everyone laughs)
Chaka Khan: ♪ Of course, first you're gonna have to fix this wing, yeah! ♪
Hey, where's Perry?
(Perry, while sleeping, hurriedly lands in his headquarters)
Carl: Uh, hi, Agent P. Major Monogram isn't here right now, but he left this note. (Tries to mimic Major Monogram's voice) "Dear Carl, I haven't been kidnapped so don't come looking for him... I mean me." Kinda weird, though, that he took the time to cut each letter out of a magazine. Anyway, Doof is on vacation with his daughter in Tokyo right now which is where the Annual World Good Guy convention is being held, and Major Monogram is the keynote speaker. Coincidence? 100% yes! So I guess you got the day off!
(Back in the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Stacy: All right, you got your breakfast. What's eating you?
Candace: Well, you know how Jeremy's in France for another week?
Stacy: Yeah, so?
Candace: Do you know what they have in France?
Stacy: The pyramids?
Candace: No! French girls!
Stacy: Come on, Candace. Everybody knows that you and Jeremy are an item.
Candace: Not officially... He's never even called me his girlfriend. We've never even kissed! That means Jeremy's single, in Paris, and surrounded by French girls. I'm no fool, Stacy, I've seen the oil paintings.
Stacy: Candace, you got to believe in yourself. What do French girls have that you don't have?
Candace: At the moment, Jeremy.
Stacy: Candace, if you want him to call you his girlfriend, maybe you should call him your boyfriend.
Candace: I can do that? I can use the B-word first?
Stacy: Sure, why not?
Candace: Oh, and Stacy, pyramids? Really?
Stacy: Oh, right. That's Belgium, isn't it?
(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz and Vanessa)
Vanessa: Look at this, it says that the tallest structure in Tokyo is the Tokyo Tower. And it even looks like the Eiffel Tower!
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: See? It's just like we're in France! Oh, here's my bag now!
Vanessa: I can't believe you brought work with you!
(Doofenshmirtz's "bag" is revealed to be Major Monogram tied up to a cart)
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: What do you mean?
Vanessa: Dad, you've got some guy tied up in here.
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: No, no, Vanessa. We've got some guy tied up in here.
Major Monogram: I've got a name, you know.
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: All right. Vanessa, Major Monogram. Major Monogram, Vanessa. There, you happy now?!
Major Monogram: I've never been happy.
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: Come on, let's go get a taxi.
Major Monogram: I'd prefer a town car.
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: Quiet, you!
(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Phineas: Okay, we're getting a slight late start because of the broken wing, but here's the whole route. With stops in Tokyo and Paris to refuel.
Isabella: You're going to Paris?
Phineas: Yeah, wanna come?
Isabella: To the City of Love?
Phineas: (Obliviously) That's what they call it.
Isabella: You're asking me to go to the City of Love with you?
Phineas: Yeah, it'll be fun.
Isabella: Now, let me see if I got this straight...
Buford: Hey Dinner Bell! I'm goin' with you to make sure you don't cheat.
Phineas: Okay. So Baljeet, you wanna come too?
Baljeet: Well, naturally--
Buford: I get one carry-on.
Phineas: All right. Carry on, then. Did you get that wing fixed yet?
Chaka Khan: I guess so. We pretty much used up all the packing tape.
Phineas: Okay, the clock is ticking, everyone!(Candace comes outside, ripping through the map)
Candace: Phineas! What's going on here?
Phineas: We're flying around the world to make the longest, funnest day of summer ever.
Candace: Oh, no, no, no. Mom left me in charge, and I say you and your little friends are not going anywhere--
Stacy: Hey, Candace, check out this giant map!
Candace: (Looks at the map) You're going to Paris...? France?
Phineas: That's the plan. We'll have to stop and refuel.
Candace: (There's a short silence while she thinks before she gets a determined look on her face) Like I was saying, you and your little friends are not going anywhere...without me!
Stacy: No, no, no, no, Candace! This is a bad idea! About as bad as you've ever had in a loong line, and I love you when you say this, really, really bad ideas.
Candace: Stacy, they're going to Paris! Where Jeremy is!
Stacy: You promised your mom you'd keep your brothers out of trouble.
Candace: What better way to look after them than by going along and keeping them out of trouble along the way?
Stacy: You realize that's a massive rationalization, don't you?
Candace: Oh yeah, totally.
Stacy: Well, say hi to Jeremy for me! And hey, you should stop by and see my cousins in Tokyo!
Phineas: Ferb, did you get the giant map packed?
(Ferb taps his pocket)
Phineas: Wow, mad folding skills. You guys all ready?
Buford: Ready for you to lose!
(They start engine)
Phineas: Uh, Ferb?
(The camera pans out to reveal their house is blocking the way. Ferb clicks a button, lowering the house down into the ground)
Phineas: All right, everyone, make sure your tray tables are stowed and your seats are in their full and up--
(The airplane takes off in fast speed. The house rises again and the backyard is a mess from the take-off)
Adyson: Okay, girls. We have roughly forty hours to get this backyard in line and set up for the party. Let's go, go, go!
Clay Aiken: Who left her in charge?
Adyson: Here, make yourself useful. (hands him a rake)
Clay Aiken: (Stares) You know, we're only booked for the hour!

Act II
Scene opens with the Amazing Sunbeater 3000 flying over a body of water.
Phineas: So, what did you guys think of the Pacific Ocean?
Buford: Eh, probably like my fifth favorite ocean.
Phineas: Next stop: Tokyo!
(Switches to a view of Tokyo Tower, with Vanessa and Doofenshmirtz)
Vanessa: It says here that the Tokyo Tower is the tallest self-supporting steel structure in the world!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, look down there, that guy just fell off his bike.
Vanessa: But..it says nothing about a...giant water balloon.
(The Tokyo Tower is seen again but reveals a giant water balloon hanging from the top)
Vanessa: (Suspiciously) Dad?
Doofenshmirtz: Do you like it?
Vanessa: We're supposed to be on vacation.
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, we'll be on our way as soon as Major Monogram drops this water balloon on the entire International Good Guy convention.
Major Monogram: I would never pull an elaborate childish prank like that. It would ruin my reputation! Destroy my credita- oh, I see where you're going with this.
Doofenshmirtz: Yes! And best of all, without your leadership, it will totally put an end to the...yes... What's the name of your organization again?
Major Monogram: The O.W.C.A. The Organization Without a Cool Acronym.
Doofenshmirtz: Okay. Well I'm going to put an end to Ah-ooh-CA, I guess...? Wow, that really isn't a cool acronym.
Major Monogram: Told ya.
(Back with the plane)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, Tokyo, Japan.
Candace: Hey, Stacy has family down there. We should visit.
Phineas: We're one step ahead of you, Candace.
Candace: (screams)
Phineas: Here we are!
(The plane lowers down and starts dragging against the road until it comes to a complete stop)
Phineas: Whoops. (He clicks a button and the landing wheels pop out) I thought it sounded a little grindy and sparky.
(Ferb approaches an old woman)
Ferb: Kon'nichiwa! Suteishī no tomodachi desu! ("Hello! We are friends of Stacy!")
Bāchan Hirano: Hey, everybody! Phineas and Ferb are here!
(A gong is heard as a ton of people run out of a nearby house joining them)
Phineas: Wow! Stacy sure has a lot of cousins.
(Song: "J-Pop (Welcome to Tokyo)")
Cousins: ♪ Welcome to Tokyo ♪
♪ Being glad that you are here ♪
♪ We came visiting, Delightful us ♪
♪ Welcome to Tokyo ♪
Phineas: Hey, do you guys have any vegetable oil we can use? We need to refuel.
Cousin: Oh, sure. Obaachan owns a tempura restaurant.
♪ As for a list of exotic amusements ♪
♪ We choice between the summer there ♪
♪ It is here we look at baseball ♪
♪ Like the fact that it does ♪
♪ As some people the fact ♪
♪ That volleyball is done and is enjoyed ♪
♪ When it's hot we swim in water ♪
♪ Like the fact that it goes ♪
(The group gets back on the plane, still doing the Caramelldansen)
Phineas: Thanks a lot! We'll say hi to Stacy for you! (The plane takes off, and everyone is still dancing) Man, Tokyo's a fun town!
Candace: I have no idea what just happened.
(Back at Tokyo Tower)
Major Monogram: No one in the Agency will ever believe that I dropped that water balloon.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, they will. Because you're going to confess that you did it on-camera for the world to see!
Major Monogram: You can't make me talk. I have nerves of steel and...an iron will and...gold teeth and a...copper spleen. Basically, I'm 35% metal.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, man. It must be hard getting through the airport.
Major Monogram: Oh, don't get me started. Anyway, you can't make me talk.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh yeah? (Puts his fingers on the Major's mouth as if he's the one talking) "I am Major Monogram. I dropped that water balloon. I have poopy pants." Eh?
Major Monogram: Well. I stand corrected. That's actually very convincing.
Vanessa: Dad! This entire trip has been about your work! That's it! If you don't want to spend time with me, then I don't want to spend time with you.
Doofenshmirtz: Vanessa! Where are you going?
Vanessa: I'm going to the airport and I'm flying to Paris. (Perry lands beside her) Hey, Perry. (to Doofenshmirtz) Alone if I have to!
Doofenshmirtz: Vanessa, wait! (Vanessa stops) You have all the traveler's checks.
Vanessa: Traveler's checks? Really?!
Doofenshmirtz: Ohh, did I say traveler's checks? Uhh, no, no... I do wanna spend time with you... Ohh look, look. I'll drop the water balloon right now and... (gets kicked by Perry)
(The remote hits Major Monogram before dropping on the ground and breaking, the button on it beginning to blink)
Major Monogram: Cheese and crackers! Oh, excuse me, you two... But uh...is that button supposed to be blinking like that?
Doofenshmirtz: Yep! That means it's working!
(The water balloon starts swinging from where it's attached on the top of the tower)
Vanessa: Ohh, this can't be good. (She gets hit by the water balloon and falls)
Doofenshmirtz: Vanessa! NOO!
(She shouts as she falls before she's caught by Phineas and Ferb's plane)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, they caught her! They caught her!
(Vanessa pulls herself away from the glass and sees Ferb on the plane)
Vanessa: Ferb?
Ferb: Vanessa?
Phineas: No matter where we go, Ferb knows everyone.
(Ferb lets her in)
Vanessa: Thanks, guys.
Phineas: It's a good thing we came along when we did. So where do we drop you?
Vanessa: I don't know. Where are you guys going?
Phineas: Well, we're off to Paris to refuel then back to Danville.
Vanessa: Can I just come with you?
Phineas: Sure.
(The plane continues on and Doofenshmirtz watches from the Tower)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, wait, wait... You saved her and now you're running off with her like...? OH! I have very mixed feelings about you! (to Perry) Uh... Perry the Platypus, how did you get here? I-I need a ride. Could you guys help me out?
Major Monogram: You're kidding, right?
Doofenshmirtz: No! I have to save my daughter. This is a big deal! Oh please? Please please? Oh, please please-y weasy please please? Please?
Major Monogram: Fine. But after we get her back, you're going to answer for what you've done here, mister.
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, what? You were coming here, anyway, and... (He accidentally steps on the button and water balloon is released from the rope holding it to the tower and flies up into the sky) Oh, and uh... As far as flinging that water balloon into orbit, hehheh... (puts his fingers on Major Monogram's mouth again) "I did that."
Major Monogram: Seriously. When was the last time you washed your hands?
(Back with the Sunbeater 3000)
Phineas: OK, everybody! Keep an eye out for Klimpaloon!
Candace: Klimpaloon?
Phineas: Yeah, Klimpaloon! The magical old-timey bathing suit that lives in the Himalayas!
Candace: You're making that up.
Phineas: Come on Candace, does that sound like something someone would make up?
(Beeping sound comes from the altitude meter)
Candace: What's that?
Phineas: Uh oh, we didn't calculate for the weight of an extra body.
Candace: Will this affect our arrival in Paris?
Phineas: Hmm... let me let you know in about two seconds.
(Wings of the plane are broken off within two seconds)
Phineas: Candace?
Candace: Yeah?
Phineas: It IS going to affect our arrival in Paris!
(The Sun-Beater crashes, and Klimpaloon shuffles past.)
Klimpaloon: NANG NANG NANG NANG NANG NANG NANG NANG!
Phineas: And you thought I'd made it up!
(On Perry's hovercraft)
Major Monogram: Do you even have any idea where we're supposed to be going?
Doofenshmirtz: Fortunately, Vanessa's wearing the earrings I got her. They're made out of these cool little tracking devices. Look, see; the signal's not too far away but it's on the move. Thataway! Woohoo! Team Doofenshmirtz, go! (Perry and Major Monogram glare) What? Like I'm going to let you name the team? Organization Without a Cool Acronym?

(At the Himalayas)
Buford: Well, looks like you're gonna lose!
Baljeet: Hey! I believe my Uncle Sabu lives not far from here! Perhaps he can help!
Phineas: Cool! Come on, let's go!
Candace: Forget it. I'm staying with the plane.
Vanessa: And I'll keep her company.
Phineas: Okay. Back in a few.
Vanessa: So Candace, what is Ferb short for?
Candace: I...don't...know.
(With the kids)
Baljeet: He is home!
Uncle Sabu: Ah, Baljeet and friends, I was expecting you.
Baljeet: Really?
Uncle Sabu: No, that's just something we say up here to freak out the tourists.
Phineas: Uhh, Uncle Sabu, do you live up here?
Uncle Sabu: Yes, it's quite a trek, isn't it? It used to be very inconvenient for me. But then I built my factory up here, and now it's inconvenient for everyone else!
Phineas: What do you make here?
Uncle Sabu: Ohh, wait for it. There's a whole musical number.
(Song: "Rubber Bands, Rubber Balls")
♪ Rubber bands, rubber balls ♪
♪ Made with super-special density ♪
♪ Rubber bands, rubber balls ♪
♪ They can bounce with such intensity ♪
♪ This is the room where we test the stretching ♪
♪ This is the room where we test the bounce ♪
♪ Here we add the long-chained hydrocarbons ♪
♪ The names of which I cannot pronounce ♪
♪ This is the room where we test compression ♪
♪ This is the room where we test recoil ♪
♪ This is a break room for all these dancers ♪
♪ And here's a little fridge so the curry won't spoil ♪
♪ Rubber bands, rubber balls ♪
♪ Made with super-special density ♪
♪ Rubber bands, rubber balls ♪
♪ They can bounce with such intensity ♪
♪ Basically what we make here is rubber ♪
♪ We're not trying to diversify ♪
♪ We don't make knickknacks, we don't make tchotchkes ♪
♪ Or really anything that's gonna catch your eye ♪
♪ We don't make pianos, we don't make cream sodas ♪
♪ We don't make the zippers for your parachute pants ♪
♪ We don't make ice cube trays or ceiling fans ♪
♪ We make rubber bands! ♪
♪ Rubber bands, rubber balls ♪
♪ Made with super-special density ♪
♪ Rubber bands, rubber balls ♪
♪ They can bounce with such intensity ♪
Phineas: So, what do you make here again?
Uncle Sabu: Okay everyone, back to work.
Phineas: No, I'm just kidding. Just kidding. Could we borrow one of these?

Act III
(Scene opens with Vanessa and Candace standing at the base of a mountain, looking at their phones.)
Candace: Ugh, I've got like...no bars here.
Vanessa: Let's see if we get a signal further up the mountain.
(On Perry's hovercraft)
Doofenshmirtz: I got her! She's down there on that craggy mountain. Quick! Let's land this bird.
Major Monogram: The terrain is too treacherous. You're going to have to parachute. Here's your parachute, goggles and oxygen mask.
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, you have everything. How about a nice cup of hot co... (The seat ejects him) COOOOOOO!!! (Doofenshmirtz lands on the mountain and begins to roll down, gathering snow and accidentally making a giant snowball)
(With Vanessa and Candace)
Vanessa: Do you hear a...rumbling noise?
(Back with the kids where a giant rubber band ball is attached to the bottom of the plane)
Phineas: So, as soon as Candace and Vanessa get here, we can...
Candace: (She and Vanessa are running from the giant snowball while Candace shouts) Start the plane! Start the plane! Start the plane! Start the plane! Start the plane! Start the plane! Start the plane!
Phineas: Ferb, I think we may wanna start the plane.
(Ferb tries to start the plane but it won't start)
Candace: Start the PLANE! Start the plane! Start the PLAAANE!
Phineas: Sounds like you're flooding it...
Ferb: I'm not flooding it!
Candace: Start the plaaane!
(Vanessa gets caught by the snowball and gets flung towards the plane)
Phineas: INCOMING!
(Ferb provides a safe landing for Vanessa when he clicks a button and causes a seat to rise up and catch her)
Candace: Start the plane! Start the PLANE! (She trips over a small hill, causing the snowball to miss her) Huh?
(The snowball hits the plane and falls down a cliff)
Candace: No, no, no! How am I ever going to explain this to Mom?!
Klimpaloon: (passes by) NANG! NANG! NANG! NANG! NANG! NANG! NANG! NANG! NANG! NANG! NANG! NANG!
Candace: That's NOT helping!
Klimpaloon: (walks away scared) NANG... NANG... NANG... NANG...
(The plane bounces back up again)
Phineas: Candace! Hop on! (Candace gets on) All right! Hold on to something!
(The plane zooms off, and the snowball flies off of it)
(The giant snowball lands beside Perry's hovercraft and the snow falls off, revealing Doofenshmirtz)
Major Monogram: So, how'd it go?
(The plane bounces off all around the world)
(Song: "Bouncin' Around the World")
♪ Come on along with me ♪
♪ So many sights to see ♪
♪ But not a whole lot of time ♪
♪ We're in a hurry ♪
♪ We're bouncin' around the world ♪
♪ I think we all can agree ♪
♪ That was the Baltic Sea ♪
♪ I check my GPS I ♪
♪ I'm pretty sure that ♪
♪ We're bouncin' around the world ♪
♪ We'll bounce across the Great Wall ♪
♪ And past the Taj Mahal ♪
♪ We'll go to Rome and see the Colosseum ♪
♪ The Colosseum ♪
♪ It's a real whirlwind tour ♪
♪ So if you wanna be sure ♪
♪ Don't you blink or you won't see 'em ♪
♪ You won't see 'em ♪
♪ I wish that we could stay and have some fun ♪
♪ But we gotta keep chasin' the sun ♪
♪ With a little compression ♪
♪ And a little recoil ♪
♪ And a big jet engine ♪
♪ We're gonna be ♪
♪ Bouncin' around the world ♪
♪ And baby, that ain't all ♪
♪ We got a big rubber ball ♪
♪ Did I forget to mention ♪
♪ That we're gonna be ♪
♪ Bouncin', bouncin', bouncin', bouncin', bouncin' ♪
♪ Bouncin', bouncin', bouncin', bouncin', bouncin' ♪
♪ Bouncin' around the world ♪
♪ Bouncin' all over the world ♪
♪ Bouncin' all over the world ♪
Phineas: We're all out of rubber bands... But the good news is we're gonna crash into Paris.
Candace: How is that good news?
Phineas: Huh? I thought you wanted to go to Paris?
Candace: Oh yeah, I did.
(The plane falls; everyone screams)
Candace: I'm feeling very conflicted about this!!
(The Sunbeater 3000 lands in the Seine River)

Act IV
Scene opens with the gang in the Sunbeater 3000, most of the group look a bit messed up from the crash.
Phineas: All right gang, we made it to Paris. We need fuel and parts so we need to split up.
Buford: Yeah, my pants are way ahead of ya.
(Back on Perry's hovercraft)
Doofenshmirtz: According to this sdƃ, Vanessa's in some place called sıɹɐd. Hmm...
(Perry turns over the GPS)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Paris! That makes a lot more sense. That's actually where she wanted to go. Good for her.
(Back in Paris)
Phineas: Okay, everybody, let's get going. Candace, you go see Jeremy.
Candace: Way ahead of ya! (She runs off)
Phineas: Baljeet and Buford, you guys go scare up the fuel we need.
Buford: You're still gonna lose, but do I like scaring things.
Phineas: Ferb, why don't you go to the Eiffel Tower and get a reading on the trade winds?
Vanessa: (Drives up on a scooter) Hop on!
Phineas: Vanessa, you rented a scooter!
Vanessa: Uhh, yeah. Rented. (Ferb gets on and the two head for the Eiffel Tower)
Phineas: I'm going to go see if I can go find some parts. Isabella, you want to come with me?
Isabella: YES! I mean, yeah, sure, you know, whatever. It's all good, bro.
(Back with Candace...)
Candace: Okay. Jeremy's staying in the hotel La Poubelle. La Poubelle, La Poubelle, La Poubelle... (She sees a woman) Oh, pardonaise-moi, madam.
Woman: Oui?
(Candace pulls out a French-English dictionary)
Candace: Une moment. Can you tell me... Oh, "Pouvaise-vous me dire" uh...
Woman: Can I tell you directions? It's okay, I speak English.
Candace: Yes. I speak English. Parlais anglais. Uh, ou est la Hotel Poubelle?
Woman: It's just around the corner.
Candace: Ugh, around the corner, around the corner, "oh quan de la rou-ee?"
Woman: Oui.
Candace: Oh, never mind. I'll find it myself. (She turns the corner and sees the hotel) Hey, Hotel Poubelle! It was just around the corner! (She sees Jeremy) There he is! Jer -- (She stops when she sees Jeremy talking and having fun with some French kids. She looks depressed before walking away. A mime appears where she was previously standing, letting go of a balloon)
(With Phineas and Isabella)
Isabella: So Phineas, what do you think of the City of Love?
Phineas: I wish it was the City of Airplane Parts.
Isabella: Oh, you're just too stressed. You should take a moment to relax and enjoy it.
(Song: City of Love)
♪ We could share a crêpe sucrée ♪
♪ At this Parisian café ♪
Phineas: Huh. That awning could be used as a sail. Or, you know, a parachute. Depending on how things go.
Isabella: ♪ Take a break and smell these flowers ♪
♪ Underneath the Eiffel Tower ♪
Phineas: I wonder if they still have pieces of that hanging around? The rivets would come in handy.
Isabella: Oh, Phineas...
♪ Won't you share a crème brûlée with me? ♪
Phineas: Hey, look at that nifty little blow torch!
Isabella: ♪ How perfect could this be ♪
♪ In the City of Love? ♪
Couples: ♪ (In the City of Love) ♪
Isabella: ♪ In the City of Love ♪
Ferb: ♪ (In the City of Love) ♪
Isabella: ♪ We could try some fancy cheese ♪
♪ Or peruse the galleries ♪
Phineas: I wonder if oil-based paint is combustible...as a rocket fuel.
Isabella: ♪ Isn't this a perfect day? ♪
♪ How do I look in this beret? ♪
Phineas: Oh, that reminds me, we might need helmets!
Isabella: ♪ Oh, how can he not feel the same way ♪
♪ When we're strolling down the Champs-Élysées ♪
♪ In the City of Love? ♪
Lady: ♪ (In the City of Love) ♪
Couples: ♪ In the City of Love ♪
Isabella: ♪ I wish that he would whisper "ma chérie, je t'aime" ♪
♪ But all he wants to do is try to fix that plane ♪
♪ In the City of Love ♪
Artist: ♪ (In the City of Love) ♪
Isabella: ♪ In the City of Love (in the City of Love) ♪
♪ In the City of Love.... (in the City of Love) ♪
(The mime passes by and lets go of a balloon)
Vendor: Hey you! Stop letting my balloons go!
(With Baljeet and Buford...)
Baljeet: Now Buford, your mindless bullying may have a rustic charm stateside, but now we are in Europe. A place of high refinement. So let me do all the talking. (They go inside a restaurant and speaks with a man in a different accent) Excuse me, sir. Would you have any used cooking oil that we could have?
Man: Non.
Baljeet: Ohh, the French are so intimidating!
Buford: Out of my way, runt.
Baljeet: Do not do anything too crazy!
Buford: (Cracks his fingers) Excusez-moi mon bon monsieur. Auriez-vous par hazard un soupçon d'huile de cuisson que nous pourrions utiliser sans nous démerder un sou? (Excuse me, good sir. Would you by chance have a touch of cooking oil that we could use without losing a penny?)
Man: But of course.
(Baljeet stares in disbelief at Buford, who quickly notices)
Buford: (to Baljeet) Not one word about that to the others.
(Phineas stares deeply at a bread store as a man is taking some giant, fake baguettes off of the front)
Phineas: Pardonnez-moi, monsieur, are you throwing those away?
Man: C'est les ordres.
Isabella: This is about the plane, isn't it?
Phineas: Well yeah, what else?
Isabella: Well, I guess we'll always have giant plastic baguettes.
(On top of Eiffel Tower)
Vanessa: I don't know, Ferb. I know he's my dad and I shouldn't blame him for being busy, it's just that...he always seems to put his work ahead of me. (She sighs) I just don't know what to do.
Ferb: Well, sometimes if you love somebody, you have to meet them halfway.
Vanessa: Halfway, huh? Hmm. (Ferb looks and sees a flower shop as she's talking) You mean like, maybe I should take an interest in his work? I would but, it's actually evil. I just can't... (She looks to see Ferb is gone) Ferb?
(Doofenshmirtz arrives and is near Vanessa)
Doofenshmirtz: Vanessa! We've come to rescue you!
Vanessa: Dad? I was just gonna... Wait. What do you mean "we"?
Doofenshmirtz: I hitched a ride! You remember these guys, don't you?
Major Monogram: Hello again, young lady.
Vanessa: I can't believe you brought work with you again!
Doofenshmirtz: Work? What do you... Oh, you mean them? No, Major Monobrow and Perry the Platypus, they...they were helping me find you!
Major Monogram: Monobrow?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, come on. You've got that whole thing up here, it runs right... It's one straight line, for crying out loud!
Major Monogram: That's it. I'm getting my tweezers back from Carl.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, come on, Vanessa. I came halfway around the world to get you!
Vanessa: Halfway?
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, halfway around the world.
Vanessa: You met me halfway.
Doofenshmirtz: I suppose you could put it that way.
(Vanessa and Doofenshmirtz smile at each other)
Vanessa: You did, didn't you? You know what Dad, move over. I'm coming with you.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, this is great, Vanessa! Why don't we talk to these guys for giving us a tour in Paris? We could go check out the Guillotine Museum!
Major Monogram: Gross.
(Ferb comes back to with a rose in hand, and sees Vanessa flying off with Doofenshmirtz)
Vanessa: Bye, Ferb! Thanks for everything!
(With Phineas, Isabella, Baljeet and Buford. Buford and Baljeet are fixing the boat while Phineas and Isabella stand nearby)
Phineas: Well, the baguettes are rubber banded on. That should get us across the Atlantic. Why didn't we think of that in the first place?
Isabella: (sarcastically) Gee, I don't know.
(Ferb shows up)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb. Where's Vanessa?
Ferb: She went off with someone else.
Phineas: That's too bad. I thought the two of you, you know, a boy, a girl, alone in the City of Love. I thought romance was a forgone conclusion.
Isabella: Grrrr! (Isabella looks on in surprise as he says this before finally breaking her pencil in anger)
Phineas: (Obviously) Isabella, did you say something?
Isabella: (Annoyed) I need a new pencil.
(Ferb hands her another pencil when Candace comes back)
Phineas: Oh, hey, Candace. So how'd it go? Did you see Jeremy?
Candace: Well, I saw him. I just didn't talk to him.
Phineas: Oh, that's too bad. I thought, you know, the two of you, a boy, a girl, alone in the City of Love...
Isabella: Grrrr! (Isabella reacts the same way as before but instead of breaking her pencil, her head explodes)
Phineas: Isabella?!
(Shows that she's fine and it was just a dream)
Phineas: Isabella, are you okay?
Isabella: (annoyed) Peachy.
Phineas: So, what happened?
Candace: Well, you know when you know someone, and you see that they have another, like, life away from you and it feels weird?
Phineas: Like when you see your teacher in the grocery store weird? Or like when someone you've known for a long time starts wearing a cowboy hat weird?
Candace: The...the first thing weird.
Phineas: That's good. 'Cause I was thinking about getting the cowboy hat.
Candace: It's just... Jeremy looked like he was having a really good time here. And it suddenly seem creepy and obsessive that I came all this way. What if he doesn't wanna see me? Or came to Paris to get away from me?
Phineas: Candace, like the song said, you have to believe you can!
Baljeet: I think Candace may have missed that song.
Buford: Yeah, man, she was in the house!
Phineas: What?! You missed Clay Aiken and Chaka Khan?!
Candace: Uhh...apparently.
Phineas: Well, that's too bad. But the jist of it was that you gotta believe in yourself.
Candace: Well, that's easy for you, Phineas! Look at all the things you've done. Summer belongs to you.
Phineas: Summer doesn't belong to me. It belongs to everyone! And that includes you. You have to believe that.
Candace: Well, my summer's been a series of failures. (Sadly) I have a hard time believing in anything.
Phineas: Well...you got on this plane. You know, back when it WAS a plane. Which means you believe in us!
Ferb: And we believe in you.
Phineas: And therefore, through the transitive property of belief, you do believe in yourself!
Candace: I do?
Phineas: Besides, when we did all those things, you were right there with us!
Candace: I was, wasn't I?
Phineas: Yes! You're Candace Flynn! Monster truck driver. Charioteer. Queen of Mars!
Candace: Well, I am Candace Flynn.
Phineas: That's the spirit!
Candace: You're right. I'm Candace Flynn! Lifeguard!
Phineas: That's right, Candace!
Candace: (She starts climbing on the plane) Time traveler!
Phineas: Don't break the engine!
Candace: (She stands on top of the engine before shouting) I am Candace Flynn! Cou de Crayon!
(Jeremy appears on the bridge overhead)
Jeremy: Candace?
Candace: Jeremy?!
Jeremy: It is you! I was just over there in the taxi and I saw you over... What are you doing here?
Candace: Well, my brothers have this idea of flying over...
Jeremy: Your brothers? Say no more.
Phineas: Oops, we slipped our mooring. Guess we're leaving. Hey Candace, better wrap it up! Looks like we're on our way.
Candace: What? No, not yet! I have something I wanted to tell you!
Jeremy: Really, what is it?
Candace: I wanted to tell you earlier but then I saw you in front of your hotel, with those kids, and the girl with the ice cream...
Jeremy: Candace, were you spying on me?
Candace: No, no, it's just that I saw you and it was like...it was like my teacher wearing a cowboy hat!
Jeremy: I would hope my girlfriend would have a little trust in me.
Candace: (Shocked) Jeremy... You said the G-word!
Jeremy: Well, yeah, I used the...oh...ugh, hold on! (He runs to the opposite side of the bridge) Yeah, I used the G-word. It doesn't freak you out, does it?
Candace: No, because I think of you as my B-word.
Jeremy: Well, G-word. You want a K-word?
Candace: Heheheh, maybe?
(The two try to kiss but the plane continues to slowly drift away)
Jeremy: Uhh...Candace?
Candace: All set, Jeremy! Start kissin'!
Jeremy: Candace...!
Candace: (Opens her eyes and sees that he's too far away) No, no, no, no, no, no!
Jeremy: W-Wait, you can't leave now! You would...just get off on the next bridge!
Candace: I can't, I'm in charge of these guys. I-I gotta be responsible. I'll see you in a week, boyfriend!
Phineas: Candace, you better take your seat.
Isabella: Don't worry, Candace. The week will be over before you know it. (A bit bitterly) At least you got a love scene on a bridge.
Buford: "Love is a canvas furnished by nature and embroidered by the imagination."
Baljeet: Voltaire, Buford? Really?
Buford: Oh, I can't help it. Paris does it to me every time.
Phineas: It's four o'clock, we're on a baguette boat, with a fuel tank filled with snail grease. I have a good feeling about this. Okay everyone, hold on to something!
(The Sunbeater as a boat zooms away)
Phineas: Ohohoh, YEEAH!
Mime: (Gets splashed by water as the plane zooms past) Hey everyone! I can talk!
Phineas: We're almost to Le Havre harbour, Ferb. After that, it's nothing but an open ocean and a couple of remote islands! We should be home in no time! (He notices a huge ship blocking the way) Huh, well that might be a problem.
Doofenshmirtz: (On the hovercraft) Hey, check it out! It's my giant water balloon!
(The balloon crashes and creates a giant wave that lets the baguette boat pass over the ship, zooming away)
(Song: "Follow the Sun")
♪ Gonna follow the sun ♪
♪ Yeah, we'll follow the sun ♪
♪ As long as we had a good time, ♪
♪ We already won ♪
Sailor 1: Would you look at that. Five kids in a jet-powered baguette boat in the middle of the Atlantic.
Sailor 2: Ahh, that reminds me of Karen Johnson.
Sailor 1: Everything reminds you of Karen Johnson.
Sailor 2: I hate being a sailor.
(Song continuation:)
♪ Gonna follow the sun ♪
Phineas: Well, looks like everything worked out the best! That giant wave put us back on schedule. We may even arrive in Danville ahead of time. You know, barring any foreseen mishaps. (The stirring wheel suddenly breaks off) Oh, like that. That's what I'm talking about. (The engine breaks) And that. (Another part breaks off) And that. (The baguettes fall off) And that. (Everything breaks except for the seats) This is all exactly what I was talking about earlier.

Act V
(Scene opens up with The Sunbeater 3000 on a remote island.)
Phineas: Well, Ferb, that was our worst landing yet. I'm beginning to detect a pattern here.
Candace: Phineas! This isn't Danville; it's a deserted island! The only things on this island are us, a couple of trees and a big fat ox!
Buford: Hey!
Candace: Not you big fat ox, him big fat ox.
(The Ox is saddened by Candace's comment)
Candace: When Mom and Dad left me in charge, I never took into account that we might not make it back at all! Now we're stranded, and now I'll never get my kiss from Jeremy! (She starts crying and falls to her knees) It's the end of romance! Aaagh! (She curls into a ball on the ground)
Buford: (Laughs) You're gonna lose!
Phineas: You do realize that you're stranded on this island too, right?
Buford: I don't care, I'm winning! (He laughs some more) I'm done.
Baljeet: Phineas, how are we going to get off this island?
Phineas: Well, we'll just have to fix the boat!
Candace: (Hopelessly) With what?
Phineas: There's plenty here. All we need is our imagination! For instance, we could tie those two palm trees into a raft and add a super sonic outboard motor. Oh, wait...we don't have anything to cut the trees with and...we don't have an outboard motor. (He looks at the ox) Aaah, I know, we could soup up this ox so he could run on a conveyor belt that would charge the... Ohh, we don't have a conveyor belt and we don't have any soup.
Buford: Not to mention... You're never gonna make it!
Phineas: We'll make it! After all, we've got... Uhh... (He looks around) We've got the seats! We've still got one rubber band! And we've got... (He looks at the ground after seeing nothing else before he picks up handfuls of sand) We've got sand!
Buford: Hey, maybe you could make an hourglass and watch the time slip away.
(Back in Paris)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, thanks for the lift.
Major Monogram: Before you leave, we have one more thing for you.
Doofenshmirtz: Really? What is it?
(Perry handcuffs Doofenshmirtz)
Major Monogram: Those are handcuffs.
Doofenshmirtz: I know what handcuffs are. I'm not an idiot! (to Perry) And not one word outta you.
Major Monogram: Well, there's a list of outstanding violations as long as your arm.
Doofenshmirtz: Ohh, well, I do have unusually long arms.
Vanessa: But we're on vacation!
Major Monogram: Oh, don't worry young lady. You'll be able to continue your vacation in 10–20 years.
Doofenshmirtz: I'm gonna beat the rap, though. I've been working on a rap-beat-inator. I just don't know if it works in France. I mean, if you see the electrical outlets here, I wouldn't even know where to start.
Vanessa: Hold it right there! (She holds up what looks like a ray of some sort) Step away from the evil scientist!
Doofenshmirtz: Vanessa! I'm so proud of you! You are evil!
(They commandeer Perry's hovercraft)
Vanessa: I'm not evil. Just get in the car before they find out this is only a hair dryer.
(They take off)
Doofenshmirtz: This is a hair dryer?
Vanessa: Yeah. I got it in Tokyo.
Doofenshmirtz: Cool! But they didn't know it was a hair dryer when you pointed it at them, so...that means you're little evil!
Vanessa: Okay, Dad. Maybe I'm a little evil.
Doofenshmirtz: I knew it! (He cries in joy) That's okay... I'm not gonna cry...
Vanessa: Dad.
Major Monogram: Well, guess we could kiss that pair of handcuffs good bye. I don't about you, but I'm gonna go take in a review. See you back in the States.
(He leaves Perry behind)
(Back on the island Phineas is seen in a giant hole digging with hands)
Phineas: (Desperately) There, There's got to be some minerals or something down here that we can use! I mean, we can't...we can't just be stuck here!
(Isabella walks away and cries until Ferb comes and gives her a handkerchief)
Isabella: Thanks, Ferb. I just don't know what to do, I mean...we were in Paris! The most romantic city in the world, and... (She sobs) he didn't even notice me! (She blows in the handkerchief) I just feel like giving up, and look at him!
(Phineas' head appears out of the hole he'd been digging, holding up a yellow sponge and a pink starfish)
Phineas: Look! A sponge and a starfish! There's gotta be something we can make out of this! Ah! Oh no, that's ridiculous! (He tosses them before going back down in the hole)
Isabella: It's as if I don't exist! I would give anything if he would just sit down with me and enjoy this beautiful sunset.
(Ferb walks away and Phineas runs over to her)
Phineas: (Desperately) We, we, we could—We, we we could dig a tunnel under the ocean and then we could, uh, we could...we can, we can...we...we can't. I can't...I can't believe there's nothing we can do to get off of this... (He sighs before he sits beside Isabella and says sadly) I guess at least we can sit and watch this beautiful sunset.
(Isabella stares at him for a second, realizing something)
Isabella: No.
Phineas: What?
Isabella: (She stands) No, you are not going to enjoy this beautiful sunset!
Phineas: I'm not?
Isabella: You built a rollercoaster through downtown! You made giant tree-house robots! You traveled through time for crying out loud! Twice!
Phineas: But, Isabella, there's nothing here for me to work with.
Isabella: Well, that's not the Phineas Flynn that I fell in...(She pauses, and quickly rephrases what she was going to say) to...this...situation with. You showed us all in Ferb's map how this is possible and I'm not gonna let you sit there and --
Phineas: Ferb's map! (He jumps up) That's it! Isabella, you're the best! (He hugs her before turning to Ferb, unknowingly leaving Isabella in a trance) Hey Ferb. Let's see that map again.
(Ferb unfolds the map and covers the whole island)
Phineas: Okay. We're here, and we need to go there. And we've got about... I'd say eleven minutes. Isabella, grab Madagascar and bring it over here to Ohio. Now Candace, you grab the Andes and fold it over the Main Greenland.
Candace: You know, folding the map doesn't actually make these places closer together.
Phineas: I know, I know! Crease it here. Buford, Australia over to Africa. Baljeet, Hawaii to Japan. (Baljeet pulls the map) No, no, East, East! Don't go West, you'll rip it! All right...now fold it here. Buford, one more crease down this line.
Candace: Phineas.. I don't see how an origami unicorn is getting us off this island!
Phineas: It's not done yet, it needs one more fold. (He makes the last fold) There you go! Now wait...
(The map turns into a monster, a Ferris wheel and finally a paper airplane)
Candace: Oh, no. No, no, no, no, no! There's no way I'm getting on that plane!
Phineas: Wait, wait. It's gonna work, you'll see!
Isabella: I think it's beautiful.
Candace: Don't encourage him. (to Phineas) Phineas, this is crazy!
Phineas: (He grabs the rubber band and puts it around the two trees) Car-salesman crazy or mattress-salesman crazy?
Candace: I don't know... Neither!
Phineas: That's a relief. Isabella, Baljeet, get the seats!
Isabella: You got it!
Phineas: Buford, grab the ox!
Buford: (Lifting the ox) This is the only way I'll actually hold him.
Candace: Phineas, it's made of paper!
Phineas: So was the Declaration of Independence!
Candace: Yeah, but it wouldn't fly over 2,000 miles of water! Buford, why are you helping?
Buford: (carrying the ox) How often do you get to lift an ox?
Candace: Have I taken crazy pills?! There's no engine!
Phineas: True, but we do have this rubber band made of super special den-si-ty!
Isabella: Just believe we can, Candace!
Baljeet: Yes. Clay Aiken and Chaka Khan cannot both be wrong.
Candace: Look, apparently I missed some big musical number with Clay Aiken and Chaka Khan, okay? So can we please stop using that as a reference?!
Baljeet: Well, it was just very inspirational.
Candace: I'm not getting on that plane!
Phineas: Candace, you won't see Jeremy again 'till we get off the island.
Candace: (She thinks) I get a window seat!
(The ox pulls the plane backward, stretching the rubber band)
Buford: You know, my horoscope said I would be riding an ox today. But I thought that was a figure of speech!
Phineas: A little bit further... A little bit further... Okay, that'll have to do. We're almost out of time; everybody on the plane!
(Everyone gets on)
Phineas: Everyone ready? It's now or never!
Candace: Actually Phineas, I-I changed my mind. I wanna stay here.
Phineas: Oh, that's just the mortal terror talking.
Candace: Well, yeah...that's what I was...
Phineas: Buford, pull the release!
Buford: Whatever, dude. It's not gonna --
(The paper plane zooms off towards America's east coast, everybody screams)
Phineas: It's working! Look!
Buford: Yes, yes, yes!
Baljeet: What are you so happy about?
Buford: I finally ate a bug!
Phineas: It looks like we're gonna make it! There's the Tri-State Area!
(Cut to the park)
Substitute teacher announcer: Welcome to the 27th annual Substitute Teacher Day. We begin by...
(The paper plane passes him)
Substitute teacher announcer: All right, who's the wise guy?
Phineas: Hang on, everyone! We're coming in!
(The paper airplane crashes)
Phineas: Actually, that's probably our best landing of the day. Great, the sun's still up and we're only five blocks away. Come on!
(They see the road construction)
Isabella: Oh no! Road construction!
Phineas: It took mom an hour get around that ditch!
Isabella: There's only 58 seconds 'til sundown!
Baljeet: What kind of watch is that?
Buford: No, no, no! Ohh, I actually thought we're gonna make it! I thought we were gonna do the impossible. For one shining moment...summer was whatever I wanted to make of it! Wait...this is my house! Hold on one second! I'm givin' everybody back their bikes!!
Phineas: But Buford, we didn't make it back to our yard. (Sees a ramp on the construction) I get it! Everybody, get your bikes!
(Getting the bikes)
Buford: Here's Ferb's, here's Phineas's, here's Isabella's... And here's, uh... A recumbent? Really?
Baljeet: Studies say it is better for your back.
Buford: How come I don't have to stand in line to bully you?
Candace: Wait, Buford never took my bike.
Buford: Noted.
Phineas: There's one right there!
Candace: Phineas, I'm not gonna get on a silly little tricycle.
Phineas: Candace, we're in a hurry. Just get on the trike, and we'll...
Candace: There's no way I'm gonna--
Phineas: (angrily) GET ON THE TRIKE!!!
(Everyone pedals their way toward the ramp)
Candace: Phineas, there's no way we're gonna clear that!
Phineas: Just believe we can, Candace!
Candace: Is that another Chaka Khan reference? Because I thought I was clear...
Phineas: You don't have to hear the song, Candace, you just have to believe!
Isabella: I believe!
Baljeet: I believe!
Buford: I believe!
(Ferb thumbs up)
Candace: Okay...I belieeeeeeve!!
(They fly on the air)
(In the car)
Linda: What a long day. It seem like the sun would never go down.
(In the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Ginger: Where are they?
Gretchen: Don't worry, they'll make it.
Milly: Seven seconds 'till sundown!
Holly: Maybe it'll help if we count!
Fireside Girls: Five! Four! Three! Two!
(Phineas, Ferb, Candace, Isabella, Baljeet, and Buford land in the yard)
Phineas: ONE!
(The sun sets as everyone starts celebrating)
Singers: ♪ Cause you believe we can... ♪
Phineas: Yeah! We did it! Oh my gosh, that was so great!
Isabella: (She hugs Phineas) You guys are amazing!
(Linda and Lawrence arrive)
Phineas: Mom, Dad!
Linda: Oh, for us? That is so nice. And Candace, so responsible. Not a single phone call.
Candace: Well, I didn't have international coverage.
Linda: What?
Candace: Never mind!
Linda: Anyway, the party looks great. But you would not believe what a long day we've had. I think we're gonna turn in early.
Lawrence: You guys just enjoy the party, okay?
Phineas: All right, you've heard him. Let's enjoy this party!
(Song: "Summer Belongs to You")
Phineas: ♪ It's been a long, long day ♪
♪ And there were moments when I doubted ♪
Isabella: ♪ That we'd ever reach the point ♪
♪ Where we could laugh and sing about it ♪
Phineas & Isabella: ♪ Now the sun has set on this, ♪
♪ Another extraordinary day ♪
♪ And when it comes around again ♪
♪ You know I'll say ♪
♪ Tell me what you wanna do today ♪
♪ All we need is a place to start ♪
♪ If we have heart, we'll make it ♪
♪ 'Cause we're not messin' around (we're not messin' around) ♪
♪ Yes we can dream it, do it, build it, make it ♪
♪ I know we can really take it ♪
♪ To the limit before the sun goes down ♪
Phineas: ♪ As soon as you wake up you gotta make your move ♪
Isabella: ♪ Don't miss the beat, just get into the groove ♪
Phineas & Isabella: ♪ The sun is shinin', there's a lot that you can do (a lot that you can do) ♪
♪ There's a world of possibilities outside your door ♪
♪ Why settle for a little, you can get much more ♪
♪ Don't need an invitation, every day is new ♪
♪ Yes, it's true ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (Summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (Summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to everyone, so have some fun ♪
♪ There's nothing better to do ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you ♪
Candace: All right, I'm taking a verse.
Phineas: Be my guest!
Candace: ♪ I traveled halfway 'round the world ♪
♪ And almost turned and ran away ♪
♪ But you helped me get my courage back ♪
♪ So now I've got to say ♪
♪ That though I've often thought of you ♪
♪ As just a nuisance and a bother ♪
♪ Today I can't imagine ♪
♪ Having better little brothers ♪
♪ And you gotta believe in something ♪
♪ So today I believed in you ♪
♪ And you came through, we made it ♪
♪ I've never been so proud ♪
Phineas: ♪ (never been so proud) ♪
Candace: ♪ I know at first it seemed implausible ♪
♪ But we accomplished the impossible ♪
♪ Now there's something that I've got to say out loud ♪
♪ Time is what you make of it, so take a chance ♪
Phineas: That's it!
Candace: ♪ Life is full of music so you ought to dance ♪
Phineas: She's got it!
Candace: ♪ The world's a stage and it is time for your debut ♪
Phineas: By Jove, I think she's got it!
Candace: ♪ Don't waste a minute sitting on that chair ♪
Phineas: Yeah!
Candace: ♪ The world is callin' so, just get out there ♪
Phineas: That's what I'm talking about!
Candace: ♪ You can see forever so your dreams are all in view ♪
Phineas: ♪ Yes it's true ♪
Phineas, Isabella & Candace: ♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to everyone, so have some fun ♪
♪ There's nothing better to do ♪
(The following lyrics have dialogue under)
Phineas & Isabella: ♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to boys and girls all around the world ♪
♪ We wouldn't say it if it wasn't true ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
Jeremy: Hey, Candace!
Candace: Jeremy! You came back early!
Jeremy: Well, I missed my girlfriend.
Candace: Oooh! I like the sound of that!
Jeremy: Besides you forgot something in France.
Candace: I did? What?
Jeremy: This.
(Jeremy kisses Candace)
Ferb: ♪ Baby, baby, baby, baby ♪
Phineas & Isabella: ♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Whatever you want to do, you make the rules ♪
♪ You got the tools to see it through ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Just remember that you can do it and when you're through it ♪
♪ Will change your point of view ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you! ♪
(Scene shows clips from "Rollercoaster", "The Fast and the Phineas", "Lawn Gnome Beach Party of Terror", "Unfair Science Fair Redux (Another Story)", "Flop Starz", "Mom's Birthday", and "The Baljeatles")
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?
(Back in Paris)
Waiter: (to Perry) Would you like your (imitates Perry's chatter) with or without fromage?

End Credits
Phineas & Isabella: ♪ Summer belongs to you (Summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Whatever you want to do, you make the rules ♪
♪ You got the tools to see it through ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Just remember that you can do it and when you're through it ♪
♪ Will change your point of view ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you! ♪
(Scene shows clips from "Rollercoaster", "The Fast and the Phineas", "Lawn Gnome Beach Party of Terror", "Unfair Science Fair Redux (Another Story)", "Flop Starz", "Mom's Birthday", then the logo jumps in.)



Part I
(Scene opens up showing Candace sleeping. Instead of her bedroom, a strange pinkish- purple landscape is shown. Her bed appears to be floating in midair. In the background, music plays in reverse.)
Candace: (Mumbles happily, then wakes up and gasps) Wow, trippy! I'm having one of those lucid dreams where I'm aware I'm dreaming so I can control it.
(Trumpet plays)
Talking Zebra: (Floats up, holding a picket sign with a picture of Candace) I voted for you, Kevin.
Candace: Cool! I'm gonna fly too! Okay, focus, and-- (Jumps off and falls, She lands with a thud on what appears to be thin air next to her bed. the whole landscape begins to crack and rumble) Oh no! I've broken my mind! Reality's shattering before my eyes! AAAARGH!
Phineas: Candace, you're fine. It's all special effects. (Presses a button; Red grids flash and the place turns into Candace's room)
Candace: Special effects?
Phineas: Yeah, cool, huh? Ferb and I are warming up before we meet our special effects hero Clive Addison today at the Science-Fiction and Fantasy Convention.
Candace: (Gets up) That explains why you're dressed in costumes from "Giant Losers: The Musical"!
Phineas: Actually, I'm dressed as Captain Lump Sharkboard from Space Adventure XIV. And Ferb is dressed as Hymie Silverman from Stumbleberry Finkbat and the Whining Wand of the Turtle Wizard. They're the two biggest movie series of all-time, and Clive Addison did the special effects for both.
Candace: Ugh! Stop being related to me! And take all your mirrors, and zebras, and junk and get out of my room!
Phineas: Zebras? (Ferb shrugs) Anyway, Ferb and I aren't in your room. We're already at the convention! (Presses a remote's button) Special effects! (He and Ferb disappear, as red grids flash on them. At the convention, a camera folds up and a briefcase closes) Look at it, Ferb. (Camera pans to the convention building) Science-Fiction and Fantasy, together at last. (Camera pans to him and Ferb) It's breathtaking. Let's get in there! Hey...

(Song: "Doof 'N' Puss")
Doofenshmirtz: "Where's Perry?" is written on this wanted poster, hanging on a tree. And we see this little hand reach up and tear the poster down and the music kicks in and all, "Chicka, chicka, chow, chicka, chow, chow, chicka, chicka, chicka, chicka, chow," and the opening credits start, like on one of those cool 80's TV shows with a voice over. You know...
Major Monogram/Voice Over: A fugitive, semi-aquatic special forces amateur stage magician, framed for a crime he didn't commit, the 1865 assassination of Abraham Lincoln, joins forces with a rogue-trillionaire inventor-extreme fighting champion from the future. Together with the aid of "R.I.C.K.", their super crime-fighting high-tech talking rickshaw, they'll bring hope, justice, and varying degrees of aquaticness to a Tri-State area in peril. Together, they are...
Female singers: ♪ Doof 'N' Puss! ♪
Major Monogram/Voice Over: Tonight's episode, Ham on Rye, Hold the Mayor.
Doofenshmirtz: You know, in the future we won't sit and read newspapers in the morning. Instead, giant robots will control us in human death matches. (Camera pans to Perry, who is putting poker cards on the table) Well, that gives us something to look forward to.
R.I.C.K.: Good morning, team. (Small monitor comes out of the rickshaw)
Doofenshmirtz: What's up, Ricky?
(Perry chatters)
R.I.C.K.: I've detected some strange, out of character behavior from our mayor recently, which has me concerned. (His screen shows Roger, waving) Here he is from a news report over a year ago. (Camera switches to the footage) Notice how he waves, it goes side to side, see? (Replays the footage in slow-mo) Again, side to side. (His screen switches to another footage at night, with two men. One with a clipboard, the other with a big scissor, Roger, and Bridgette Oshinomi, with a chopped ribbon) Now, here's footage from just two days ago. (Roger lifts his hand) Watch. See? His hand goes up, and then he transforms into a wolf with fiery, red eyes, and runs howling into the misty night.
Doofenshmirtz: Now that you mentioned it, that is unusual for him.
R.I.C.K.: We've got to somehow get close to the mayor, and find out what's going on.
Doofenshmirtz: (Snaps his fingers) We're gonna need a turban and a wig. And while I'm out, I'm gonna pick up some bagels. Anyone else want anything?

(Candace sneaks across the room, hefting a huge duffel bag, while Linda is busy cleaning the stove, facing away from her)
Linda: Hi Candace, Where are you off to?
Candace: Oh... I'm uh... going to Stacy's.
Linda: Okay honey. What's in the big bag?
Candace: (Cautiously) Smaller bags.
Linda: Great! Have fun.
(At the Science-Fiction and Fantasy Convention)
Phineas: Isn't it magnificent Ferb? Special effects extravaganzas just have a way of bringing people together.
Albert: (Dressed as a dragon, speaking to Irving dressed in a costume similar to R2-D2) If you think Lump Sharkboard can defeat Hymie Silverman, the elf prince, than you are three phlorics short of a foxonian zipfeller, my friend!
Irving: Oh yeah? Well, you can carry your own action figures! (Opens the hatch on his costume, and various action figures spill out)
Phineas: (notices Clive Addison talking with some other men near a sign) Ferb! There he is! Clive Addison! Do you have our special effects demo reel? (Ferb holds up the reel) Yes! I can't believe we're going to meet him!
(They walk toward Clive Addison, but Irving steps in front of Phineas)
Irving: Oh! Phineas, you're just in time. Would you please tell this dragon loving heathen that the Space Adventures movies are superior to the Stumbleberry Finkbat movies in every way imaginable?
Phineas: Oh...uh...uh... We're just... (He groans when Clive Addison walks away)
Irving: Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't realize you were in mourning.
Phineas: What?
Irving: Yeah, it also took me awhile to accept the fact that I had no brother any more. (shoots a cursory look at Albert, who scowls back)
Phineas: What?
Irving: They actually think all those magic elves movies are better than Space Adventure's epic science-fiction genius!
Phineas: Well I...
(A large crowd of Finkies gathers around Albert and a crowd of Speckies around Irving)
Albert: Stumbleberry Finkbat and the Lost Shadow of Darkling Tower alone, was smarter and more realistic then all the even-numbered Space Adventure movies combined!
Finkie: Yeah man! You tell him!
Irving: Realistic? Space Adventure is based on hard scientific fact. It's like watching a reality show from the distant future. (The crowd of Speckies agrees loudly)
(The crowd of Speckies stops and stares at Ferb standing beside Phineas and Irving. Ferb whistles a tune, and walks to the Finkies side)
Irving: As it should...a-be.
Irving: That fantasy stuff is for kids! It's almost as lame as dressing up as...Ducky Momo or something.
(A person dressed in Ducky Momo costume runs off)
Finkies: Finkies!
Speckies: Speckies!

(At City Hall)
Roger: Thank you for auditioning, but we're looking for something a little more dazzling for the mayor's ball.
Doofenshmirtz: No wait! We can dazzle, we can. I will now saw The Amazing Platydini in half. See? See? Platypuses, they're like butter.
Assistant to the Mayor: Mayor, we got this surveillance photo from the wig and turban supply store.
Roger: It's Doof 'n' Puss.
Doofenshmirtz: And now, Plati-padapbra!
Roger: Oh very impressive, Doctor Doofenshmirtz and Perry the Platypus! Now it's my turn to make you disappear.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh no! Ninja Vampires! I hate these guys.
(Doofenshmirtz engages in a martial-arts duel with a ninja vampire. Cut to an unrelated shot of a wooden shack blowing up. Perry the Platypus leaps from the magician's box in two halves, both ready for battle.)
Ninja Vampire:  Wow, he's good.
(Perry's top half punches a ninja vampire. Cut to a speedboat blowing up. More fighting. A bowl of fruit explodes. Doofenshmirtz and Perry the Platypus get backed up against a wall)
Doofenshmirtz: I picked the wrong day to stop carrying garlic scented throwing stars.

(At the Convention)
Jeremy: (Picks up his phone) Hey Stacy, how's it going? No, I haven't heard from Candace.
Stacy: What! See told me that she was hanging with you today.
Jeremy: Really? She told me the same thing about you. Anyway, I'm over at the Sci-Fi Fantasy convention with little Suzy. She's really into the kids stuff. You know, like Sea-Horsie Hospital, air you know, lame stuff like Ducky Momo. (Seeing a person in a Ducky Momo costume) Ooh.
Suzy: Ducky Momo!
(Ducky Momo runs away, and Suzy chase after him)
Jeremy: Uh, Suzy? Wait, Suzy!
(Ducky Momo finally loses Suzy)
Suzy: Aww
Jeremy: You know you can't run away like that.
Candace: (In the Ducky Momo suit) Oh, that was close. (She removes the head of the costume) Why must it be so hard for a lifelong, closet Ducky Momo fan to go to a Science-Fiction and Fantasy convention, and find cool, rare Ducky Momo collectibles, without anybody discovering her dark, humiliating secret?
(Song: "Ducky Momo is My Friend)
♪ When I was small, the world was such a strange place ♪
♪ But that was all until I saw his strange face ♪
♪ Quacking in slow-mo ♪
♪ Ducky Momo is my friend ♪
♪ And since we've met, he's been a friend to count on ♪
♪ If I could bet, I'd put the full amount on ♪
♪ Never needing to know mo ♪
♪ Then Ducky Momo is my friend ♪
♪ All the lessons that he's taught me brought me luck ♪
♪ Now when life throws eggs, I know how to duck ♪
♪ Oh, oh, but now the world just points and laughs at me here ♪
♪ The hidden girl who risked so much to be here ♪
♪ Showin' my face is a no-no ♪
♪ But Ducky Momo's still my friend ♪
♪ Ducky Momo is my friend ♪
♪ Ducky Momo is my friend ♪

Finkies: Finkies!
Speckies: Speckies!
Phineas: Come on guys, aren't you blowing this all out of proportion?
Irving and Albert: No.
Finkies: Finkies!
Speckies: Speckies!
Finkies: Finkies!
Speckies: Speckies!
Irving: Come with me Phineas, you should meet with the Almordian Council. They'll set you straight. (They walk off)
Phineas: But, what about Ferb?
Irving: Oh, forget about him, he's nothing to you anymore. (pushes Phineas in front of him as he walks off)
Albert: (to Ferb) Well, I guess I'm your new brother. Carry my action figures?
(Irving knocks on the door of the men's restroom)
Irving: We seek counsel with the exalted one.
(They enter the restroom, where they see Baljeet sitting on a sink counter)
Phineas: Baljeet?
Irving: Baljeet is the only sixteenth level Space Adventure trivia master in the world.
Baljeet: I feel a minor disturbance in the universe, almost as if... (A toilet flushes, and Clive Addison walks out of the stall) Nope! Now it is gone.
Phineas: ...Okay. It's Clive Addison!
Irving: Pay attention! I have unfortunate news to report master. Ferb is... dressed like an elf!
Phineas: Yeah, and is costume's really cool too. He spun his own wool, and the headband's made of--
Baljeet: Oh for the love of humillian dorphite! We lost Ferb too?
Phineas: He's not "lost". He's just enjoying a different genre.
Baljeet: Never! The line must be drawn here! (gets up and shines a flashlight beside Phineas) Right between Phineas and his loved ones.
Phineas: Oh come on. Did you ever consider that fans of Space Adventur-
Baljeet: Speckies!
Phineas: Right, speckies. Have more in common with fans of Stumbleberry Finkba-
Baljeet: Finkies!
Phineas: Maybe Speckies and Finkies have more in common then they do differences.
Baljeet: Oh! Bite this prop tongue from episode eight! (produces said prop tongue)
Phineas: Have you ever tried talking to them?
Baljeet: Talk!? Have you met the leader of the Finkies?
Buford: I'm sure you're wondering why I, Buford, have taken a leadership role in such a geek-centered enterprise. Well, take a look around! This place is crawling with nerds! I'm like a kid in a candy store! Plus, I relate to the character of Odaf Underhump and his complex emotional inner journey.
Baljeet: I seriously doubt this will work. Buford is not a man of peace.
Phineas: Nonsense, I'm sure Buford will be reasonable.
(They arrive at the Finkie "camp")
Buford: Hey! No space bunnies allowed!
Baljeet: I am not a bunny rabbit! I am an Almordian Vanksloth.
Phineas: It's time to end this silly feud, so we can all enjoy Clive Addison's special effects presentation. Baljeet, you prepared a peace treaty.
Baljeet: I did. (Clears his throat) We Speckies vow to live in peace and harmony with you Finkies. All that we ask is that you admit that Space adventure is much better than Stumbleberry Finkbat, and that you have brought eternal shame to your families believing otherwise.
Phineas: Umm... that's not really what I said-
Buford: Oh yeah!? You and what army?
Baljeet: Your question makes no sense as a response to what I just said.
Buford: Well, how 'bout this? (Ties Baljeet's costume's ears into a knot)
Baljeet: (feels about on top of his head and becomes angry when he discovers the knot) Alright, so it is war then!
Buford: Bring it on, Speckies! We're gonna go all Hyborian age on you!
Baljeet: That is not even a real age!
(The Speckies and Finkies go their separate ways, leaving Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: (Sighs) To quote Lump Sharkboard from Space Adventure Sixteen...Glorf.
Jingle Singers: ♪ Glorf! ♪

Part II
Major Monogram/Voice Over: We now return to:
Female Singers: ♪ Doof 'n' Puss! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (He and Perry are tied up inside of a storage closet) Well what did you expect? It was like twenty of them, against one-and-two-halves of us.
(In the corner Roger Doofenshmirtz is struggling to get out of his own bonds)
Doofenshmirtz: Look! It's the mayor! Get him!  (leaps at Roger)
Roger: (After being wrestled across the room) Knock it off. I'm the real mayor, that other guy is a shape-shifter posing as me.
Doofenshmirtz: You know that's funny, you know, even while I was attacking, I was thinking; Why would did he tie himself up in a dark closet with us? Wh-what kind of a plan is that?
(Perry chatters)
Doofenshmirtz: (to Perry) Oh, you've freed yourself with your amazing magician skills!
(Perry brandishes a pair of scissors)
Doofenshmirtz: And also scissors.

Phineas: Now we've done it, Ferb! We brought the entire convention to the brink of an inter-genre geek war. It's us to extend the olive branch of diplomacy. I'll go talk to Buford, and you can talk to Baljeet. May the luck of Sluffon be with you.
Ferb: Always.
Candace: Ducky Momo Plushies. Momo Collectible Card Game. Momo the Movie! Oh, the Momo-ness of it all! The sheer Momosity!
Suzy: Ducky Momo!
(Candace runs away)
Suzy: Wait for me!
Jeremy: Suzy! Oh that poor sap in the costume.
Candace: She's relentless! (She runs into the "Alien nest")
Speckie: Hey! No cutting!
Suzy: (Runs in after Candace) I want to see inside you head!
Speckie 2: These Momo nuts are such an embarrassment.
Speckie 3: Seriously.
(Inside the Alien Nest)
Suzy: Ducky Momo? Where are you? Ducky Momo? (an alien roars, causing Suzy to run out of the nest screaming) Ducky Momo!
(Candace escapes the other way)
Candace: Ha! Now If I could just find one piece of Ducky Momo merchandise I don't already have, all this would be totally worth it.
Phineas: I've got to get to Buford, but how to approach it?
Irving: Working on your battle strategy, Phineas?
Phineas: What? No! I-I mean... yes! Yes I am. In Fact, there's a way you can help.
Irving: Me? Help you? My manipulator-slash-grasper is at your command!
Phineas: Great! We'll have to modify your costume a bit to get behind enemy lines.
Irving: Enemy lines!?
(In the Finkie camp, Irving comes in dressed as a tree stump)
Irving: Uh, excuse me, Mr. Barbarian, Sir.
Buford: Why do you disturb my brooding on the eve of war, stumpling?
Irving: I come bearing a message. (A holographic project of Phineas appears)
Buford: Witchcraft! What trickery is this?
Phineas: Greeting, all-mighty Odaf Underhump.
Buford: Phineas, your kind is not welcome here.
Phineas: Just hear me out! In a theatrical landscape that's drowning in comedy, romance, and thought-provoking ecological docu-dramas, Finkies and Speckies are all outcasts. They should be friends.
Buford: There are no friends in these halls, Phineas. There are only my people, and those who must be destroyed.
Phineas: But that's jus--
Buford: Hold your words, outlander! Once Odaf Underhump has made a hasty and ill-informed decision, he cannot be swayed.
(Outside of the Speckie Camp, Ferb approaches the bathroom door)
Speckie 1: Go home Finkie, your kind isn't welcome here.
(A rustling is heard)
Speckie 2: Did you see that?
Speckie 1: He just vanished.
Speckie 2: He must be employing some kind of cloaking device.
Speckie 1: No, it's an elven cape of invisibility, duh.
(Ferb slips past the two guards, under a tablecloth)
Baljeet: My time is limited, Magician. I must gather my positronic impulses for the coming battle. Speak.
(Ferb raises his finger, and opens his mouth to speak)
Baljeet: Ha! You cannot charm me with your silver tongue, Elf Prince.
(Ferb closes his mouth)
Baljeet: And your magic rune signs have no power in this dimension.
(Ferb lowers his finger)
Baljeet: This conversation is over. Transport him away.
(Ferb is bathed in light from a flashlight, as two Speckies make teleporter sounds.  Ferb walks out the door)
Phineas: This day isn't turning out like I'd hoped at all.
Clive Addison: (standing behind him) I know how you feel.
Phineas: Clive Addison! We're your biggest fans!
Clive Addison: Thanks, man. It's just too bad there aren't more of you out there.
Phineas: That's crazy! Everyone here loves your work. In fact, the only reason they're not in line to see you is that they're about to go to war over which of your movies is better.
Clive Addison: Oh man, I don't wanna hear that. I became a special effects artist to join the nations of this earth together in peace and hope.
Phineas: Well, what other reason is there for creating cool visual effects for film and television? ...Special effects! That's it! Ferb, I know what we're gonna do from this point in the day on!
(Two war horns sound)
Phineas: And we'd better do it fast. Look!
(Song: "To War")
♪ The sun blazes red o'er the convention center! ♪
♪ As red as the blood of all who enter! ♪
♪ That's pumped through the hearts into this fearless choir. ♪
♪ It's the size and the shape of a fist clenched in ire! ♪
♪ That's raised to the sky in faith and in duty, ♪
♪ That holds that red sun in all its beauty ♪
♪ A beauty we all must ignore! ♪
♪ As we take the last steps to war! ♪
♪ 'Cause our movie's better than yours! ♪
♪ No our movie's better than yours! ♪
♪ (Our movie's better!) ♪
♪ Our movie's better than yours! ♪
♪ (Our movie's better!) ♪
♪ No our movie's better than yours! ♪
♪ (Our movie's better!) ♪
♪ Our movie's better than yours!♪
Baljeet: You cannot resist our superior technology!
Buford: (lifting his arms) Smell my barbarian pits!
Crowd of Speckies: Eww!
Baljeet: Yuck!
Buford: Let's do this.
Baljeet: (Draws his flashlight) Ready?
Candace: The coast is cl-- (Gasps) I don't believe it. That's the rare Ducky Momo commemorative plate where they accidentally printed the wrong the wrong saying. (The plate reads; "I Hate People!") Score! All I have to do is get over there without drawing too much attention to myself.
Baljeet: Charge!
(The two armies charge at each other, only to be interrupted by Candace in her quacking Ducky Momo costume crosses straight between the two armies. After an awkward pause in which everyone stares at her, she continues, finally leaving the scene.)
Buford and Baljeet: Charge again!
(The two sides begin "fighting" each other by rolling dice, bashing their action figures, and using other props to fight)
Irving: Eat laser, Hymie Silverman!
Baljeet: (After rolling dice against Buford) Haha! That gives me a five points weapon skills advantage. You lose an arm!
Buford: Fine, it'll be back. Odaf Underhump has a healing factor of eight!

(During Doof 'n' Puss)
Mayor's Assistant: And now to present his various new, pro-ninja vampire laws, here he is, the totally, for real, Mayor.
Doofenshmirtz: Freeze punk-fake mayor guy!
Fake Mayor: You want me? You come get me! (He then transforms into a giant pint muscled monster)
Voice Off Screen: Wait hold on a second.
(The show stops, revealing that Doofenshmirtz was just pitching an idea to a big shot TV executive at the convention)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, what?
Jeff McGarland: You can't just throw a monster in to the end of a story because you're stuck for an ending. It's lazy. It's lazy writing.

(A giant monster, half mutant, half digital appears and roars. It is as tall as the ceiling)
Irving: What is that thing?!
Baljeet: (holding up a black box) I do not know! Those readings make no sense!
Irving: That's a pencil sharpener.
Baljeet: How is that information helpful at this juncture?

Jeff: On, on second thought I love it. You may have tied me up next to-what is this? A beaver or something? (Referring to Perry) And, and pitched me a TV series against my will, not to mention holding up the autograph line. But my advanced TV executive instincts tell me your show is going to be a big hit.
Doofenshmirtz: Yes! I'm going to have my own show, on television! And then, all of these fans will be so in awe of me, they will do my bidding. It's actually happening! I am going to rule the Tri-State Area!
Jeff: Just a thought though, can we get the platypus a girlfriend?
Doofenshmirtz: What! Never! Oh, so suddenly you know my character better than me? Forget it! I'm no sell out. I just crassly calculated commercial appeal in a mad quest for financial gain. No, no my artistic integrity and I are out! Peace!

(The hybrid monster continues to terrorize the convention)
Baljeet: Buford! Just what do you think you are doing?
Buford: What does it look like? I'm running away, hoping that while the monster is busy eating my friends, I can escape.
Baljeet: Is that what Odaf Underhump would do?
Buford: (pause) No, no it's not. He'd never run from a fight.
Baljeet: Exactly, no hero would, no matter what the genre. And neither will we!
Buford: And, we'll win.
Baljeet: Fantasy...
Buford: And science fiction...
Buford and Baljeet: Together! (they pump their fists in the sky together)
Buford: Archers! Regroup and protect the left flank.
Baljeet: Ion-Laser cannons, push him back to the center.
(At the Ducky Momo booth)
Lady: That'll be fifteen dollars.
Candace: Here.
Lady: So, you a fan of Ducky Momo? (snickers)
Candace: No, why do you ask?
(The monster comes over and roars at Candace, who drops her collectible, smashing it)
(Blast shots begin to appear on the monster, because of the fans "firing" at it.)
Phineas: It's working! Look, they've joined together to defeat our monster.
Clive Addison: Oh guys, this is soooo cool! Watch this man, I'm gonna make him lurch to the right.
Candace: What is that thing? It's like a nightmare, or... (Notices the projector Phineas and Ferb are using to create the monster) a lucid dream. Of course! Phineas and Ferb!
(Albert uses his wand on the special effects monster)
Albert: Rootah dez-tu valoomus!
Albert & Irving: Rootah dez-tu valoomus!
(They look at each other)
Albert & Irving: Brother!
Albert & Irving: Rootah dez-tu valoomus!
Candace: What are you dweebs doing? Don't you get it? This is all baloney! It's just special effects. And even if it were real what good would this stuff do? Plastic blasters? Rolling dice? You think you could stop a think like that by waving a wand and saying; "Eugie beugie weugie!"?
(The special effects monster disappears)
Candace: I can't believe that actually worked.
Kid 1: Ducky Momo defeated the monster!
(Everyone runs to Candace and lift her up cheering)
Buford: My people have much to learn from your people. You must tell me how to shoot a blaster someday.
Baljeet: Absolutely, and you can teach me how to wield a club.
Buford: I'm afraid that information is proprietary.
Candace: (taking off mask) Look everybody, it's me. Candace Flynn. I'm the one you love! And I love Ducky Momo!
(Everyone stares at Candace and start laughing)
Kid 2: Look, she's a teenager and she's dressed as Ducky Momo! Oh that's lame, even if she did save us.
Kid 3: She came dressed as Ducky Momo. Negative.
Candace: Man, fickle crowd.
Jeremy: Candace! That was so cool!
Candace: Oh, hey, Jeremy. You're not too embarrassed to talk to Ducky Momo?
Jeremy: Maybe Ducky Momo Isn't that lame after all. Someone else seems to really like him too.
Suzy: I love you Ducky Momo!
Candace: Ducky Momo loves you too Suzy.
Clive Addison: I gotta say guys, that was, hands down, the best special effects show ever. And I've been at Burning Man. Your holo-projection device is brilliant!
Phineas: Thanks, Mr. Addison! That means the world coming from you.
Clive Addison: Well it's just really clear that you two are going to have an amazing career in special effects ahead of you. And if that's what you want, give me a call in ten years and I'll hire the both of you in a heartbeat.
Ferb: Actually what I'd really love to do is direct.
Clive Addison: Oh, you and me both.

Voice over: We now return to, The Platypus & His Girlfriend.
The Platypus's Girlfriend: Now Mr. Mayor, I will saw the amazingly handsome Platy-dini in half.
Doofenshmirtz: (Watching the show) Ahh, he was right. This is better. I should have sold out.

End credits
(Song: Ducky Momo Theme Song)
♪ Ducky Mo Ducky Momo (Quack quack quack!) ♪
♪ Ducky Mo Ducky Momo (Quack quack quack!) ♪
♪ Ducky Mo Ducky Momo (Quack quack quack!) ♪
♪ He's your very best friend! ♪
♪ Who's the happy-time toy toy ♪
♪ For every girl and boy boy? ♪
♪ Who's the fuzzy enjoyment? ♪
♪ Make fun with Ducky Momo! ♪
♪ Ducky Mo Ducky Momo (Quack quack quack!) ♪
♪ He's your very best friend! (Quack quack quack!) ♪



Part I
(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Linda: (from inside) Enough moping around, Candace. (cut to inside Candace's room where Candace is sitting on her bed, she approaches her.) Phineas and Ferb said they've devised a fun way to wash the house. Why don't you join them? Have some fun for a change!
Candace: For a change? I have lots of fun!
Linda: You mean, obsessively trying to bust your brothers for their mystery crimes? Is that "fun"?
Candace: I have fun. I'm like the queen of fun! I have fun all day!
Linda: I can tell. Well, if you just sit inside today, you should at least do a little reading.
Candace: Aw, Mom?
Linda: It's one of my favorites.
Candace: The Wizard of Oz. Isn't this for babies?
Linda: Or you could wipe down Perry's platypus plaza play set.
Candace: (Opens book) I'm reading, I'm reading!
Linda: Well, I'll be at my weight lifting class. Have fun!
(Linda leaves.)
(Candace starts reading, but after some time, puts the book down and falls back on her bed.)
Candace: Ah! Oh, my eyes hurt! (to a picture of Jeremy) Oh, Jeremy, you're the only one who understands-
Buford: Hi, Candace!
Candace: AHH! Buford, Baljeet, what do you two want?
Buford: What, like in a metaphysical sense? Nothing. I'm good.
Baljeet: I want to be cool!
Buford: That's not gonna happen.
Baljeet: Oh....
Candace: I mean, why are you looking in my window, duh!
Buford: Oh, Ferb says I should tell you we're about to start washing the house, and you can help us out if you want!
Candace: Not likely.
Buford: Either way, you might want to put on some waterproof undergarments.
Candace: Will you get out of here?!?
(Buford and Baljeet climbs down the ladder)
Candace: (opens book again) Blah blah Dorothy, blah blah Kansas. There's a cyclone coming?
(House starts shaking and loud rumbling is heard. View changes to the outside of the house and shows a large pole lifting it up.)
Phineas: Okay Ferb, let her lift.
(Shows Candace again)
Candace: (Flies off bed) AH!
(Cuts back to house, now it's spinning.)
Phineas: Take your positions everybody! And remember, even strokes.
(Phineas uses a hose to spray the house as it spins.)
Baljeet: Do you guys always wash the house like this?
Phineas: Sometimes, we give it a bath,
(Cut to a giant bathtub sitting in the streets of Danville.)
but the city's using the tub as a reservoir.
(Shows Candace getting dizzy while her bedroom is spinning.)
Candace: Whoa! What's happening? (Gargling) Phineas! Ferb!
(Cut back to her room showing Candace all wet, then passes out.)
(Cut back to the outside of the house, then the house spins faster.)
Phineas: Okay. Full speed now!
(Cut back to Candace, she gets dizzy as she is laying on the floor, then her picture of Jeremy starts spinning forming a portal.)
Linda: (echoes) Try to have fun!
Baljeet: (echoes) I want to be cool!
Talking Zebra: (echoes) Hello.
Buford: (echoes) I don't want nothin'!
Baljeet: (echoes) Waterproof undergarments! Wheeeeeeeee!
(The house spins around through the portal, then sees Phineas and Ferb's faces coming together.)
Phineas: (echoes) Hey! I wonder where Perry went?
(Crash; Candace wakes up, then Perry chatters.)
Candace: Ew! Gross! Perry!
(Cut to outside of the house, then Candace opens the slider.)
Oh, wow! (Her perspective of a different landscape) Perry, I don't think we're in Danville anymore.
Dream Fireside Girl: You're in Patchkinland! We're Patchkins, and we welcome you because,... (sing-song) Little Witch Suzy was a louse, now she's squished under your house!
Little Witch Suzy: (muffled) I'm alright!
(Dream Fireside Girl spits) 
Dream Fireside Girl: I have saliva.
Candace: Gross!
Dream Fireside Girl: Eyeball!
The Patchkins: Eyeball! Eyeball!
(The Eyeball floats down to Patchkinland, then pops revealing The Good-Witch, Isabella.)
The Good-Witch, Isabella: What'cha doin'? (walks up to Candace) I'm The Good-Witch, Isabella. Welcome to Patchkinland!
Little Witch Suzy: (muffled) Hello?! Can someone get this off me?!
Doofenwitch Warlock: (shouting in the background) Don't touch those boots!!!
The Patchkins: Witch! Witch! Witch!
Doofenwitch Warlock: Not witch, Warlock! It's a robe! Not a dress!
(a crash is heard as he lands on the ground)
I suppose I should thank you for squishing little Suzy.
Little Witch Suzy: (muffled) I'm okay, if you'd just lift this house off me!
Doofenwitch Warlock: But I won't, because I'm wicked! Heeheehee. I'll just take these little boots, and be right on my--
(Red rubber boots disappear)
What? What happened?!? Where are my boots?!?
The Good-Witch, Isabella: Right there... on Candace.
Little Witch Suzy: (muffled) Now my feet are cold.
Doofenwitch Warlock: Give me those boots!
The Good-Witch, Isabella: She doesn't have to give you anything! You have no real power in this part of Odd!
Doofenwitch Warlock: Wrong! I have the power of positive thinking! True, it doesn't really... help me this instance, but you can't stay in Patchkinland forever! That's right! I'll get you,... and your little platypus too.
Perry: (Growls back defiantly)
Doofenwitch Warlock: Now, check me out as I disappear into an evil cloud of black smoke! Ha ha!
(Black smoke surrounds Doofenwitch Warlock. Smoke disappears, revealing him in a charred and withered style.)
You know, I'm just gonna use my bus pass.
Little Witch Suzy: (muffled) Seriously! Can someone get a jack or something?
Candace: I don't know how, but I bet Phineas and Ferb are behind all of this!
(Backdrop falls, then shows Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: Oh, hi, Candace!
Candace: I knew it!
Phineas: Have fun!
(Ferb pulls the rope, the backdrop rises quickly, then Candace runs towards Phineas and Ferb but then finds out it has actually become a real background)
Candace: Wait! Stop! How did you--? (Growls in frustration, then walks toward The Good-Witch, Isabella)
Alright, Eyeball girl! Where can I go to bust someone around here?
The Good-Witch, Isabella: You can always try Bustopolis. That's where the wizard lives.
Candace: Can the wizard bust my brothers?
The Good-Witch, Isabella: You bet'cha!
Candace: How do I get there?
(Song: "Yellow Sidewalk")
The Good-Witch, Isabella: Well, listen to this.
The Patchkins: ♪ Ooo-hoo! Ooo-hoo! Ooo-hoo! La-la-la-la-la-la-la. ♪
The Good-Witch, Isabella: ♪ Well, the sky is blue and the breeze is mellow. ♪
♪ I'll tell you what to do, ♪
♪ Take the walkway that's yellow ♪
♪ It'll get you where you want to go ♪
♪ Just take the yellow sidewalk. ♪
The Patchkins: ♪ Ooo-hoo! La-la-la-la-la-la-la. ♪
The Good-Witch, Isabella: ♪ Just take the yellow one, not the one that's burnt umber ♪
♪ And don't you take that purple one, it's covered with lumber ♪
Candace: What?
The Good-Witch, Isabella: ♪ A log truck overturned last Tuesday ♪
♪ Take the Yellow Sidewalk ♪
The Patchkins: ♪ Ooo-hoo! Ooo-hoo! ♪
Police Officer: Nothing to see here, move along.
The Good-Witch, Isabella: ♪ If you wanna bust your brothers ♪
♪ Put one foot after another ♪
♪ There's a road that leads you out of this square ♪
♪ And there's nothing really stopping us, ♪
♪ So let us state the obvious ♪
♪ If you standing here, baby... ♪
The Good-Witch, Isabella/The Patchkins: ♪ You're going nowhere! ♪
The Good-Witch, Isabella: ♪ So, if you're really in a busting mood, ♪
♪ Please don't think I'm being rude! ♪
♪ Just grab yourself some take-out food, and hit that yellow sidewalk! ♪
The Patchkins: ♪ Ooo-hoo! Ooo-hoo! Ooo-hoo! La-la-la-la-la-la-la! ♪
♪ Ooo-hoo! Ooo-hoo! Ooo-hoo! La-la-la-la-la-la-la... ♪
(The Eyeball starts to form around The Good-Witch, Isabella)
The Good-Witch, Isabella: So, remember, if you wanna bust your brothers, stay on the yellow sidewalk! (floats away)
(Fades out into a cornfield; Candace and Perry walk up the yellow sidewalk, then stops)
Candace: I hope there's not gonna be a lot of singing in this thing. (sighs) How much further is this "Bustopolis"?
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): For some of us, it is a world away!
Candace: What are you supposed to be?
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): I am a nerdcrow. I hang in cornfields, wedgie-style, to keep the crows away. They would not be caught dead anywhere around me. For you see, despite of my above average mathematical skills, I am not cool.
Candace: That's fascinating. But, I'm on my way to Bustopolis to ask the wizard to bust my brothers.
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): The Wizard?!? (falls to the ground) Oof! Do you think the wizard can do something for me?
Candace: What do you want?
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): Allow me to put it in song!
(Song: "I Wish I Was Cool")
♪ I want to be cool, cool, cool. ♪
♪ I feel like such a foo-oo-ool, ♪
♪ 'Cause everybody I see ♪
♪ Everybody but me, ♪
♪ Knows a secret to cool, cool, cool. ♪
♪ They don't teach it in schoo-oo-ool. ♪
♪ Ain't no pamphlet they wrote, ♪
♪ No one pass me that note. ♪
♪ Guess that I missed the boat, ♪
♪ Down the-- ♪
Candace: (interrupting) Alright! That's enough!
(Song stops)
I get it. You want to Bustopolis and ask the wizard for coolness, right?
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): (eagerly) Do I!
Candace: Fine, you can come along.
(Candace leaves)
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): Boy, howdy!
(Nerdcrow (Baljeet) catches up with Candace, then the ending part of The Yellow Sidewalk plays)
Candace: But, no singing, and don't stand too close. Too close!
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): Sorry.
The Patchkins: (singing in background) ♪ Ooo-hoo! Ooo-hoo! Ooo-hoo! La-la-la-la-la-la-la-- ♪
(record needle scratches)
Phineas: Hi, Candace! So, you two on your way to Bustopolis? 'Cause Ferb and I made a more fun way to get there. We've built a beautiful horse path through a candy forest, and genetically engineered some unicorns to ride.
Candace: Oh, no. No, we are staying on the yellow sidewalk.
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): Do I have a say in this matter?
Candace: No. Let's go!
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): Yes, Candace.
Phineas: Sorry you're gonna miss out on all of the fun! (to Ferb) I'll race you to marshmallow meadow, Ferb. (while riding unicorn with Ferb down the horse path) Well, this is fun. It's a little girly for us, isn't it?
Ferb: Well, it is Candace's dream.

(Cut to outside of Doofenwitch Warlock's Castle which looks like Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Wicked Witch Castle! ♪
Doofenwitch Warlock: It's not witch! It's warlock! Argh! Let me just check my security.
(Cut to Doofenwitch Warlock's crystal ball)
(Beep) The front door looks good.
(Beep) The back door looks good.
(Beep, then shows Agent P climbing up) The platypus outside my window looks good.
(shocked) The platypus outside my--
(Agent P attacks Doofenwitch Warlock on his face)
Ooh! Oh! Gross!
(Doofenwitch Warlock throws Agent P to a spider web, then traps him)
Hey. I know you... you're with that little boot thief, right? Well, I'm going to send out my flying squirrels after her! (sighs) Those stunning little planes, they're cute, but, you know, that they don't fly so fast. We've got some time.

(Cut to Candace and Nerdcrow (Baljeet) still walking the yellow sidewalk)
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): How much farther do we have to go?
Candace: All I know is, Phineas and Ferb are behind all this, and if I follow this sidewalk, I will bust them.
(Candace looks, then spots a rusted tin man)
Wait a minute, I know this. There should be an oil can around here.
Jeremy-Tree: (clears throat) Could you leave the lumberjack alone?
Candace: Jeremy? Forget this! (throws the rusted tin man away, a crash is heard) Oh, hi! I-I couldn't help, but notice that you're, um...
Jeremy-Tree: A tree?
Candace: A-ttractive.
Jeremy-Tree: It's OK. I know I'm a tree.
Candace: Well, we're gonna go and see if the wizard can go and grant our wishes. Uh,...do you have a wish?
Jeremy-Tree: Do I have a wish?
(Song: "Tree Related Wish")
Jeremy-Tree: ♪ Would you take a good look at me, I stand before you as a tree. And you ask me what my wish would be. ♪
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): How come he gets to sing--
Candace: (covering Nerdcrow's mouth) Shhhh.
Jeremy-Tree: ♪ It's probably related to me being a tree. ♪
(Birds flying from Jeremy-Tree's top to the sky)
♪ It's my tree-related wish. ♪
Candace and others: ♪ (Tree-Related Wish) ♪
Jeremy-Tree: ♪ It's my tree-related wish. ♪
Possums: ♪ (Tree-Related Wish) ♪
Jeremy-Tree: ♪ It's my tree-related wish. ♪
Bear: ♪ (Tree-Related Wish) ♪
Jeremy-Tree: ♪ I'll tell you what it is when we get to Bustopolis. ♪
Candace: Oooo. I can't wait to find out. Come on, let's go.
(Candace leaves, then Nerdcrow enters right next to Jeremy-Tree, then part of The Yellow Sidewalk plays)
Nerdcrow: Aren't you just going to wish not to be a tree?
Jeremy-Tree: Shhh.
(Jeremy-Tree and Nerdcrow catches up with Candace)
Girls like a little mystery.

The Patchkins: ♪ La-la-la-la-la-la-la-- ♪
(record needle scratches)
Phineas: Hi, Candace. From this point, you have two routes to Bustopolis.
(The scene pans out to a sign with two routes to Bustopolis)
On your right is a yellow sidewalk through a terrifying beastbog.
(A giant drop of water comes out of the bog)
Beastbog: We have saliva!
(Candace, Nerdcrow, and Jeremy-Tree in a shocked look while ominous music plays)
Phineas: And on your left, Ferb and I have built a frozen non-dairy treat sidewalk through an ice cream canyon. You can skate it and lick it for the ultimate favorable fun.
Nerdcrow and Jeremy-Tree: Ice Cream, ICE CREAM!!!
Candace: Oh, no, you don't! We're staying on this sidewalk until we meet the wizard and you're busted.
(Candace runs to the beastbog)
Crow, Tree, let's go!
(Nerdcrow and Jeremy-Tree follows Candace to the beastbog)
Nerdcrow (Baljeet), Jeremy-Tree: Yes, Candace.
(Candace, Nerdcrow (Baljeet) and Jeremy-Tree leaves into the beastbog while Phineas and Ferb watches them go)
Phineas: Well... there is only one thing left to do.
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb ice-skating across the frozen non-diary treat sidewalk through an ice cream canyon)
Phineas: Whoo-hoo! Yeah! Whoo-hoo!
(Cut back to Candace, Nerdcrow (Baljeet) and Jeremy-Tree walking through the beastbog)
Candace: This is better than an ice cream canyon, isn't it?
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): Oh, yes, I much prefer rotting vegetation and blood-sucking demons.
Jeremy-Tree: Sure are some scary looking trees in here.
Creepy Tree: Hey, we can't all be movie stars.
Candace: I... I... I think there's something up there.
Stacy-Owl: Whoo?!
Candace: AHH!
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): What is that?
Jeremy-Tree: Where?
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): There!
Candace: It looks like a lion.
Jeremy-Tree: No, looks like a tiger.
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): I think it is a bear.
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): No, I'm a combination lion, tiger, and bear.
Candace, Jeremy-Tree, Nerdcrow (Baljeet): Oh, my!
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): If I had a nickel every time I heard that...
Candace: All right! Let's blow this pop stand! (pauses) What? (another pause) Oh, fine. (at Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford)) My friends and I are going to Bustopolis to each get something from the Wizard. Do you want to come? There!
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): Nah. I don't want nothin'.
Candace: Ok. Chop, chop, fellas! Time's a-waistin'.
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): But I am reminded of a song.
(Song: "I Want Nothing")
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): ♪ I... waaaaaaaaaaant... ♪ Nothin.
Candace: Well, at least it was short. Come on!
Nerdcrow (Baljeet), Jeremy-Tree, Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): Yes, Candace.

The Patchkins: ♪ La-la-la-la-la-la-la-- ♪

(record needle scratches)
Phineas: Hi, Candace. You guys could continue walking through this damp bog, and that would be awesome. But if you'd like to take the more fun route to Bustopolis, Ferb and I have built...
Candace: A blue sidewalk?
Phineas: A bouncy sidewalk! What do you say, Candace?
Candace: I think you already know my answer. Step it up, freaks!
Nerdcrow (Baljeet), Jeremy-Tree, Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): Yes, Candace.
Phineas: Ok, have fun!
Candace: (growls in frustration)

Doofenwitch Warlock: Soon those boots will be mine! In the meantime, I'm going to leave you in the capable hands of my spider-monkey, or maybe a monkey-spider. I don't know what he is. Hehehe.
Spider-Monkey: (laughs, then grabs Agent P's fedora; only to get punched by a boxing glove) Owww!

Candace: Bouncy sidewalk. I'm keeping my eyes on the prize!
Jeremy-Tree: Hey, what's that?
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): Looks like a squadron of flying squirrels!
All: AHHHH!!!!
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): Hey! What are you doin'? Ow, ow, ow! I can't believe I'm doin' this for nothin'!
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): I wish I was still hanging by my underwear! Just kidding!
Jeremy-Tree: Come on! I'm a tree! I'm friends with squirrels! ... Oh, snap. (to Nerdcrow (Baljeet)) Oh, that's got to hurt.
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): You get use to it.
Candace: Squirrels! Squirrels! Whoaaaa! AHHH!
Jeremy-Tree: Oh, no. The squirrels have got Candace!
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): We've got to do something!
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): I got nothin'.
Phineas: Oh, hey, Candace. We're taking the bouncy sidewalk. Of course, your way looks fun, too.
Candace: I'm not having fun, and neither will you if I ever get back to the yellow sidewaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaalk!

Part II
(Scene opens with Candace stuck to a large spider web in Doofenwitch Warlock's castle)
Candace: Okay. Kidnapped by flying squirrels and stuck in a web that came out of a monkey's butt. Hm. Well, I guess I have had weirder days.
(Perry chatters)
There you are, Perry.
Doofenwitch Warlock: Silence! I've got you now, missy. You may as well hand over those boots.
Candace: I would, but they've kind of grown on me.
Doofenwitch Warlock: I know. They're nice, aren't they? And the color really set off your eyes.
Candace: No, really. They've grown on me. I can't take them off.
Doofenwitch Warlock: If I can't take the boots off of you, I have to get you out of the boots, and by that, I mean, disintegrate you entirely!
Candace: Perry, I'm sorry I got you into this mess. Forget about me. Save yourself if you can.
(Perry cuts the web in front of him with a saw in his fedora)
Candace: Well, if it's that easy...
Doofenwitch Warlock: Ahhh! Get him off of me! Ahh! He could have rabies! ... Oh, I hate spider webs! ... Guards!
(The guards line up equally, except one who is wearing pink boxers with pink hearts)
Guard #1: Uh. ... Ready?
Guard #2: Yep.
(Instrumental version of Perry's theme)
♪ Agent P! ♪
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): Getting our wishes will not be the same without Candace.
Jeremy-Tree: I miss her, too, even if she was a little bossy.
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): I need a firm hand.
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): Look! It is Candace's pet platypus. Has he always have that hat?
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): What's he want?
(Perry chatters)
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): Could be rabies.
Major Monogram: Gentlemen, we're out to stop Doofenwitch. You want to rescue the girl. I see an opportunity for some inter-agency cooperation. Now, here's the plan. Wait, why am I a fairy?
Doofenwitch Warlock: See this hourglass? When this sand runs out, that’s when this big electric timer begins. And when that time runs out, it activates the Brat-Begone-Inator to vaporize you right out of your boots! Haha!
(Doorbell rings)
Ooo! Someone is at my door! (opens door) Hello?
Jeremy-Tree: Hi! You've been selected for a free haunted castle makeover from Witches Brew magazine.
Doofenwitch Warlock: Not witch! Warlock!
Jeremy-Tree: What about the dress?
Doofenwitch Warlock: It's a robe! Whatever, I'm not going to turn down a free makeover. Come on in. I'll show you around.
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): I see you have a bunch of spider webs. Sure, they're classic, but overdone. We say it's more of a modern witch.
Doofenwitch Warlock: Warlock!
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): Yeah, whatever.
Candace: Hey! Weren't you taller? ... Perry! Quick! Get me out of here before that whatever -inator zaps me. ... Haha! That tickles! (giggles)
Doofenwitch Warlock: I like it!
(Rumbling)
Ooh! My Begone-Inator! I'm going to check my crystal ball.
(whacks the crystal ball) Come on! Doofy wants a new pair of boots! What's this? (gasps) Well, they won't get away so easy this time!
(Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy knocks the crystal ball off its stand)
Why did you do that?
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): It's part of the makeover.
Doofenwitch Warlock: Wait a minute! Guards! Again!
Guard #1: Dude.
Guard #2: I'm good.
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): Run for it!
Doofenwitch Warlock: Don't let them escape!
Jeremy-Tree: Candace! Perry!
Doofenwitch Warlock: Ahahaha! How convenient! Everyone's all together.
Jeremy-Tree: Yeah, we're kind of expected in Bustopolis. You know; the Wizard, great and powerful.
Doofenwitch Warlock: Shut up! You're a tree!
Candace: Wait a minute! You can't talk to Jeremy like that!
Doofenwitch Warlock: Put that bucket down!
Candace: Melt, evil witch!
Doofenwitch Warlock: You little brat! This outfit is 100% cotton. ... Oh, it's shrinking! It's shrinking! I have to go to change my clothes.
Candace: Sorry, I only meant to melt you.
Doofenwitch Warlock: Guards! Dispose of them while I switch into my track suit.
Candace: Dispose of us?!? You... you really don't want to do that, do you?
Guard: Well, no, but nobody ever asked us what we want to do.
Candace: 'Well, what do you want to do?
Guard: There's a little number we've been working on. Hit it, boys.
(Song: "The Guards' Wishes")
Guards: ♪ Well, we've been cooped up in this castle, ♪
♪ So who cares what people say, ♪
♪ We haven't had a chance to dance since we were on Broadway! Hey! ♪
♪ The power of the wizard's all but stopped us from our dance, ♪
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): What the hey! Everyone gets to sing but me?
Guards: ♪ Now then boys, let's make some noise! Kick up your heels and dance! Hey! ♪
Doofenwitch Warlock: I'm back! Sheesh, no need to celebrate. I've been gone a minute. Wait! Where are my prisoners? ... Oh, they're escaping, you fools! After them! Raise the drawbridge!  ... Oh, great! The monkey is the only one working here!
(Growling)
Candace: Great! Now what? ... No way!
Jeremy-Tree: Hold on!
Candace: Ahhhhh!!!!
Doofenwitch Warlock: Curse you...! Ahhh!!! I'll get you! Ahhh!!! Oh, forget it.
Phineas: Hey, Candace! Isn't this fun?
Candace: Fun? Not if you think so! ... Huh? ... Squirrel! Squirrel!
Phineas: Wow, tough luck, and over the Sea of Razor Sharp Rock Spires, too. ... Good thing it's so inappropriately named.
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): Hey! Look over there!
Candace: Bustopolis! Come on!
The stuff Phineas and Ferb made! It’s all here! The ultimate bust!
Elf: Follow the yellow...!
Candace: Oh, shut up!
Elf: Well! (gets trampled)
Phineas: Fun way to the top, Candace?
Candace: Forget it! I'm taking the yellow stairs! (Runs up said stairs)
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): Three please.
Candace: Hello? I'm Candace the me and... ... Whoa! ... Guys, you're making look bad in front of the Wizard.
(Cell phone beeps)
Um, hello? I would like speak to the Wizard, please.
(Beeps)
Wizard (Linda): Hello, Candace.
Candace: Mom? You're the Wizard?
Wizard (Linda): Well, I'm a whiz at the kitchen.
Candace: This time the boys are so busted! Have you seen what they're been up to?
Wizard (Linda): Up to? Why, no. I...
(Ding!)
Oops, that's the oven. Boys, could you hand out the gifts while I check on the casserole?

Phineas: Hey, Candace.
Candace: Phineas? Ferb? But... but... but... but...
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): Does this mean I will not receive coolness?
Phineas: Well, coolness is such a rare and indefinable quality that a few people really have it. Most people wear a pair of these and fake it.
Nerdcrow (Baljeet): Hey, works for me, chili cheese.

Phineas: Yeah, don't over-sell it. (to Jeremy-Tree) So, Jeremy-Tree. You want to be a real boy instead of a tree, hmm?
Jeremy-Tree: Well, yeah, but I'll bet you don't have anything in your bag for me.
Phineas: The problem with you is, you're completely delusional.
Jeremy-Tree: I am?
Phineas: Sure. You've been a real boy all along. You're just wearing a tree costume.
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): He's right. There's a zipper right back here. Hey, let me get that off for you.  
(unzips the tree-suit)
Jeremy-Tree: (gasps) I'm free!!!... and I'm in my underwear… (Jeremy quickly covers up his underwear)
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): Yes. Yes, you are.
(Jeremy picks up his tree costume and walks off)
Phineas: And you've come all this just to say you want nothing. Are you sure you want nothing?
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): Yes, I want nothing.
Phineas: Some people say they want nothing when really they want something.
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): Not really. I'm cool, man.
Phineas: You might want something later.
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): Nothing!
Phineas: You sure?
Lion-Tiger-Bear Guy (Buford): Alright! I'll take something! (grabs a sandwich from the bag) Ooo, a ham sandwich. I did want that.
Phineas: And there's one more person with a wish.
Candace: Wait a minute! If you think you could bribe me or something...
Doofenwitch Warlock: I'll get you, my pre... (falls from the ceiling)
Phineas: And here he is now.
Doofenwitch Warlock: I want...those red rubber boots!
Phineas: Sure. Candace won't mind. Right, Candace?
Candace: Well, yeah, but they won't come off.
Phineas: Ferb?
(Ferb takes out a red shoe horn)
Doofenwitch Warlock: A red rubber shoe horn? Why didn't I think of that? That's it?
Phineas: Yep. Have fun!
(Song: "My Red Rubber Boots")
Doofenwitch Warlock: ♪ Well, my wardrobe, it used to be duller, ♪
♪ But now I got this one splash of color. ♪
Look!
♪ I got red rubber boots, ♪
♪ and I'm gonna go steppin' tonight. ♪
Broom me!
♪ Yes, I can go tip-tapping all over town, ♪
♪ I... ♪
(gets cut off when a house lands on him)
"Dorothy": Golly!
("Toto" barks)
Doofenwitch Warlock: Ughh, I didn't get to finish my song.
Candace: That's just great! Everybody gets what they want except me.
Wizard (Linda): I'm back. Now, what were you're saying, Candace?
Candace: Mom, you've got to bust Phineas and Ferb!
Wizard (Linda): Bust them for what?
Candace: Unicorn-pony rides, non-diary frozen treat ice cream ice skating, bouncy sidewalks.
Wizard (Linda): They sound like fun! Oh, you must have a wonderful time.
Candace: Fun? Are you kidding? I didn't have any fun! I followed the yellow sidewalk like I was told.
Wizard (Linda): Who told you to do that?
Candace: The Good Witch... in the floating eyeball.
Wizard (Linda): Oh, her. That's what she tells everybody.
The Good-Witch, Isabella: Take the yellow sidewalk. Take the yellow sidewalk. Take the yellow sidewalk.
Wizard (Linda): All this time, the boys were only try to show you the fun way to go. The joy is in the journey, you know. (winks)
Candace: So, you're telling me that I could have fun throughout this entire adventure if only I stepped off the yellow sidewalk and join my doofus brothers? Is that it?
Wizard (Linda): On the nosy. Loosen up, sweetheart. Remember to have fun along the way. Summer won't last forever.
Candace: But I want to have fun. I can do it. Really! I'm a fun person!
Wizard (Linda): Good bye, dear. Mustn't overcook my vegetables.
Candace: Wait! Don't go! I haven't had fun yet! (Starts spinning around in the pink portal from before) Hey, what's happening? No! No! I'm waking up! I don't want to! This isn’t fair! I didn’t have any fun! No! No!
(wakes up) No! No! Huh? No, it was all a dream. A crazy, wild, fantastic dream, and I blew it! ... Huh? (gasps)
Phineas: Hi, Candace. (to Perry) Oh, there you are, Perry. (to Candace) We just built a self-balancing monster unicycle. It can take us anywhere the fun way. Want to join us?
Candace: Are you kidding? When I tell Mom what you guys are up to... Did you say fun?
Ferb: Often, the most fun you can be found in your own backyard.
Candace: And the joy...is in the journey... Okay! I'm in!
Phineas: Cool!
Candace: Oh, Jeremy! Hi! Let's go!
Jeremy: More fun than taking the sidewalk, huh, Candace?
Candace: You have no idea.
Phineas: (From the back of the screen) Have fun, everybody!

End Credits
(Song: "Rusted")
Candace: ♪ I know what's wrong with you; ♪
♪You're rusted! ♪
Background singers: ♪ (Rusted!) ♪
Candace: ♪ Don't you know that you've been oxidized? ♪
♪ Somebody left you in the rain too long ♪
♪ And now you've been immobilized ♪
♪ You're rusted! ♪
Background singers: ♪ (Rusted!) ♪
Candace: ♪ If you move, you make a squeaking sound, ♪
♪ That's right, you've got an orange patina ♪
♪ From above your neck down to the ground, ♪
♪ You're rusted! ♪
Bear: Yes. Yes, I do.



(Scene opens with a view of the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Phineas: It says on this box of cereal that I have to get Korny the Cornflake through this maze. If I was Korny, I would want a little more of a challenge. They just don't make good puzzles or mazes any more.
(Candace flails on her roller-skates)
Phineas: Mazes should be big and fun and exciting! Ferb...
Ferb: You don't even need to say it.
(Candace stops herself from falling)
Phineas: Hey, Candace. Whatcha doin'?
Candace: Well, Jeremy is taking me roller-skating tonight. And I thought I needed a little practi... (Screams)
(Candace drifts off screen and crashes)
I'm okay!
Phineas: Let's get started. Hey, where's Perry?
(Perry is seen entering his lair through a vent above the kitchen stove)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P... (Exclaims) Sorry, we haven't cleaned that entrance in a while. Don't worry, we have a moist towelette.
(Perry opens the package and wipes himself)
Major Monogram: Anyhow, Doofenshmirtz has gone missing. We've used our global location scout and we can't find him anywhere. Even his answering machine has given us no clue as to where he is.
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: Hello! You've reached Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz. I'm not here right now, or am I? Muhehehehehe. Oh! And if you're calling about the piano its already been sold.
Major Monogram: We Need you to find him. Good luck Agent P. Monogram out.
(Agent P runs out)
(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Phineas: It looks like we're good to go. Time to test out our maze.
(Baljeet suddenly appears)
Baljeet: Did someone say test!?
Phineas: It's not really a test. We're more like lab rats going after cheese.
(Buford suddenly appears)
Buford: Did someone say cheese?
Phineas: Buford that's just a metaphor.
Buford: Mmmm. I am to metaphor cheese as metaphor cheese is to some transitive verb crackers.
(Isabella and Melissa walk in)
Melissa: And I want to get the zoo keeping patch, and the cooking patch, and the astronomy patch.
Isabella: Oh, Melissa. You remind me of me, when I was a Lil' Spark.
Melissa: When I grow up and become a Fireside girl, do you think I'll earn as many patches as you have?
Isabella: With your enthusiasm, you'll probably earn even more.
Melissa: You really think so? Cause that's my goal. I want to be just like you.
Isabella: Hey, everybody. This is Melissa.
Buford: Yeah, Hi.
Baljeet: Hello.
Phineas: Hey-Ya.
Melissa: Isabella is my mentor for today. She's the best Fireside Girl ever.
Isabella: I'm sure they don't want to hear about...
Phineas: Hey, Candace.
Candace So, I see you've build another giant whatever in the backyard. I think you know what I have to do.
(Candace falls back activating the elevator to the top of the maze)
Candace: What is this thing?
Phineas: It's our elevator to the top of the maze.
Candace: Well make it go down.
Phineas: It doesn't go down, it only goes up.
Candace: Ooh, you guys are going down!
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
(Perry walks up to a pull-string Doofenshmirtz doll, and pulls the string)
Doofenshmirtz Doll: Hello Perry the Platypus... Sorry I'm not there to greet you myself, but this is... a trap.
(Perry falls into a rocket ship, which launches.)
(Meanwhile...)
Candace: Why would you build an elevator that doesn't go down?
Phineas: Because, people might just ride down on the elevator instead of going through the maze.
Candace: What do you mean maze...?
(Camera zooms out revealing the maze)
Phineas: We had the computer randomly load puzzles and brain teasers to make clearing each level more of a challenge. Okay, first one out is the smartest rat in the lab.
(Buford, Baljeet, Phineas, and Ferb all run off)

Isabella: Do you want to go through the maze with me?
Melissa: Yes! Yes! Yes!
Isabella: Candace, would you like to join Melissa and me?
Candace: Candace Flynn can find her own way out.
Melissa: Oh, my gosh! You're Candace Flynn! You're the girl who earned 50 patches in one day! You're on the cover of Lil Sparks Magazine! How did you do it?
Candace: Well, let me tell you some thing kid. It wasn't easy. But the Forest Fire Girls really needed me.
Isabella: Fireside Girls.
Candace: That's what I said. Come on girls, I'll get us out of here.
Melissa: Yay! Candace is gonna lead us to safety!
Buford: Brain teasers, huh? Alright you do all the ones that rely on brains, and I'll do all the ones that rely on teasin'.
Baljeet: I do not think you understand the concept.
Buford: Less talk-y more work-y.
(Song: "Not Knowing Where You're Going")
♪ It's so much fun not knowing where you're goin' ♪
♪ Take a left or a right just going without really knowin' ♪
♪ Whether marchin', flyin', crawlin', waltzin' or rowin' ♪
♪ There's no surprise in life if you know where you're goin'♪
♪ So walk around like a monkey with a blindfold on ♪
♪ (Woo! Woo hah!) ♪
♪ Like an Eskimo in six months of darkness who misses the dawn ♪
♪ So jump in the maze it's the latest craze ♪
♪ Spend your days going every which way ♪
♪ It's so much fun not knowin' where you're goin' ♪
♪ (Look out!) ♪
♪ It's so much fun not knowin' where you're goin' ♪
♪ (Yeah yeah yeah yeah) ♪
♪ It's so much fun not knowin' where you're goin' ♪
I have no idea where my destination is.
♪ It's so much fun not knowin' where you're goin' ♪
♪ It's so much fun not knowin' where you're goin' ♪
(Hysterical laughter)
♪ (Yeah yeah yeah yeah) ♪
♪ It's so much fun not knowin' where you're goin' ♪
♪ (I'm really enjoying it though)♪
♪ It's so much fun not knowin' where you're goin' ♪
(Perry's rocket ship land in a space station resembling Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ahh, Perry the Platypus, welcome to my evil space station! (Echo: Station -tation -tation Cookie -tation) Wait, did you hear that? That "cookie" part? I think my echo is broken, I really do. Any who...have a seat. I've set up a presentation for you. Ten years ago I was backpacking across Europe, when I came across a group of Canadian college student. Dylan was the most popular among the group, but but I was the oldest, so rivalry was inevitable.
(Scene shifts to the maze)
Buford: How many jellybeans in the jar?
Baljeet: Oh, I'm really good on solving these kind of problems.
(Throughout the following, Ferb tries to talk but wasn't given a chance to)
Phineas: So the base of the jar is Pi times radius squared.
Baljeet: You are measuring the radius in centimeters, right?
Phineas: No, inches. That way the inches fractions work with Pi as 22 over 7.
Baljeet: You do not use 3.14 for Pi?
Buford: OH, FOR CRYING OUT LOUD!
(Buford eats all of the jellybeans in the jar)
Buford: There, zero.
(The door opens)
Baljeet: Okay, technically that is correct, but you did not show your work.
Buford: I will in about 20 minutes.
(Doofenshmirtz is showing to Perry a few diapositives (it's a projector, not a retrospective) about his trip to Europe 10 years ago.)
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: ...then the Ambassador's wife filed a complaint... Long story short, I am never welcome in Albania ever again. But the point is, I ended up alone in Italy, and it was lunch time, so I went to the Leaning Tower of Pizza, and you know what? They don't even make pizza there! And I said, "What do they mean?" It's the Leaning Tower of Pizza! It's got " pizza" actually in the name! But they were adamant. "No pizza for me!" L-L-Likelike I'm the idiot. I was like, "You're not so great. You're not so special. What? Just 'cause you're leaning?" Then it hit me. I'll just lean my own building, and then it will become a big tourist attraction, and I'll sell all this merchandise, I'll make millions. Which I will then use to finance phase two of my maniacal plan: Tilting every building in the world! And the Leaning Tower of Pizza will no long be special. Ooh, ooh, and then I'll straighten my own building, and it will still be a tourist attract, 'cause you know, it's the only straight building. I just now thought of that. Just now. See that's how genius happens. It's a lot of leaning and straightening, you get the idea. I'm going to use this Tilt-inator, and do it all from space! (Echo: Space Space Space Cookie Space) There! There it was again. You -- you heard that? My next to last echo is broken. I'm going to have to have that checked.
(Back inside the maze)
Isabella: Wow, it's some kind of high wire challenge, good thing I got my high wire patch, twice.
Candace: Did, you get fifty, in one day? Okay then. Now Melissa... (begins drifting onto the high wire) The thing to remember about a high wire is...
Isabella: Candace! Be careful!
(Candace stumbles, but bounces to safety)
Candace: See? It's that simple.
Melissa: Okay.
(She goes out, but loses her balance, catching the high wire with only one hand)
Candace: Isabella, do something!
Isabella: Hold on Melissa.
(Isabella goes out to the high wire and saves Melissa just in time, and swings her to safety.)
Melissa: (at Candace) Oh my gosh. Thank you for telling Isabella to save me.
Candace: Well what did you think I was going to do? Let Isabella let you fall?
Isabella: Glad I was able help.
(Scene shifts to the space station)
Doofenshmirtz: The Tilt-inator is set with an automatic timer, once it's activated, even I can't stop it. All that's left to do is open the bay doors, this may take awhile.
(Back with the girls in the maze)
Melissa: How far down is it?
Isabella: I don't know, I can't see the bottom. But it almost doesn't matter, so long as we get across it.
Candace: Of course we need to know how deep it is, so we know how scared we should be. We can use this grappling hook and rope to find out. (throws it into the pit) One...Two...Three. (The rope hits the bottom) You see? Now we know that it's three seconds deep.
(Inside the space station)
Doofenshmirtz: ...And done. So Perry the Platypus, in fifteen seconds, will turn my building into the leaning tower of Doofenshmirtz! And you'll notice, there's no self-destruct button, no reverse levers, no abort switches, it's completely Perry the Platy-proof! Nothing can stop me now!
(Perry takes the pin that was holding the bay doors open, causing the to fall)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh oh. No no no no no! Stop stop stop stop stop! Stop it!
Computer: ...Four...Three...Two...One...
(The Tilt-inator fires a ray, tilting the station)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, no! Why would you even do this? Now I need to open the door and reset the Tilt-inator countdown to fire again.
(Scene shifts again to the girls)
Isabella: Okay... Now that we want to get across, it sure would be nice to have a grappling hook and some rope.
Candace: Oh yeah. Yeah, where can we get a grappling... I know it's right over--! Oops.
(The platform they're standing on begins retracting)
Isabella: Oh, would you look at that.
Candace: The platform's retracting! What are we going to do?
Isabella: You're the girl one who got fifty Fireside patches in one day.
Melissa: That's right, Candace will get us out of this? Won't you Candace?
Candace: That was a fake! I only did it to get into a concert! If it wasn't for Isabella and my brothers I never could have done it. (Melissa gasps in shock) Now will you please save me?
Isabella: Give me one of your roller-skates.
Candace: Here.
Isabella: Now if I take the shoelace and... (She throws it, creating a gripping hook, latching onto some of the piping)
Candace: Whoa whoa whoa whoa!
(The platform on the other side retracts as well)
Candace: Oh this is just great! I thought you were going to save us, I though you were supposed to be this perfect Firefighter Girl.
Isabella: Fireside Girl!
Candace: That's what I said.
Isabella: Wait there's a lever in the middle, but I can't reach it.
Candace: Well I can't reach it either.
Isabella: I bet the rope you threw away was longer than your shoelace.
Candace: Oh? So now it's my fault?
Melissa: You got another shoelace.
Candace: What?
Melissa: Right here, look!
(Melissa traps onto her shoelace, dropping down, and hitting the release lever, and the three girls tumble out of the maze on a slide.)
Candace: Yes! I still have time to bust the boys before my skate date! (runs into the house) Mom!
Isabella: Come on Melissa, lets get you home.
(Scene shifts to the space station)
Doofenshmirtz: ...and done. Now with the—Hey! Where'd you go? What are you doing up there?
(Perry on top of the Tilt-inator, sticks a snow globe in it.)
Doofenshmirtz: Nooo!
Computer: ...Three...Two...One...
(The Tilt-inator fires, refracting off the snow globe, sending beams in all directions)
(A beam from the Tilt-inator hits the maze, making it roll away, right before Candace pulls Linda outside.)
Candace: Mom, you have to see this! Phineas and Ferb made a giant maze in the backyard!
Linda: (flatly) What maze?
Candace: (Looks over to see that the maze disappeared) It was right here!
Linda: Alright, Candace. (She grabs her arm.) Inside. (She pulls Candace back inside.)
Candace: But, but, but...
(Door slams)
(The Tilt-inator continues to fire, and Perry escapes in his rocket)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus! Wait for me!
Singers: ♪ Agent P! ♪
(The maze continues to roll, with Phineas, Ferb, Buford, and Baljeet running inside it.)
Baljeet: Wow, you guys thought of everything!
Phineas: We didn't think of this one. Okay guys I see the exit. ...And stop!
(The boys safely land, while the maze crashes off a cliff)
Buford: Wow, that was at least three seconds deep.
Phineas: It's a good thing the girls beat us out.
Isabella: (As Melissa boards the Little Sparks bus) Bye Melissa. See you next week.
Phineas: Everything worked out just fine.
Buford: Hey! I never got my metaphor cheese! (Echo: cheese cheese cheese wombat cheese) Huh, my echo must be broken.



(Scene opens up in the Flynn-Fletcher living room. Candace, Phineas, Ferb and Perry are watching television)
Narrator: This week, we ask "Where Did They Go?" about Pop Stars from the 80's... First up, this perky pop-star stole a One Wonder Hit by declaring "I'm Lindana and I Wanna Have Fun."
Candace: Hey, she looks familiar.
Narrator: Lindana's real name is Linda Flynn-Fletcher and she's now living in the Tri-State Area.
Candace: What? Mom, mom, mom!
Phineas: I can't believe she didn't know that.
(Candace then runs to Linda)
Candace: Mom, mom, mom, mom! You never told me you were a pop star!
Linda: Oh yeah! Well, that was long before you were born. It was fun, but I was happy to give it up to raise a family.
Candace: But you were Lindana and you wanted to have fun!
Linda: Well, now I'm Linda and I wanna stir broth.
Phineas: (holding a cell phone) Mom, it's for you. He says he's a concert promoter.
Linda: Really?
(Screen switches to Linda on the phone)
Linda: An '80's revival concert featuring Lindana? Well, I don't know.
Candace: Are you crazy?!? Say yes!!!
Linda: Candace, it's been so long.
Candace: Come on! It'll be fun! And you'll be cool! And by extension, I'll be cool! (She smiles.)
Linda: Oh, what the heck? (on phone) I'll do it!
Candace: (jumping) Woohoo!
Phineas: Way to go, Mom!
(Ferb holds up a sparkler.)
Lawrence: Yes, oh, yes, good on ya, honey. (chuckles)
(Screen switches to Linda in a limo talking to her husband and sons)
Linda: Okay, then, dinner's in the oven. Just heat it up. Bye!
(She waves and rolls the window up while Lawrence waves back.)
Candace: (popping out of the sunroof with her fists in the air) Rock and roll!
(The limo drives away.)
Lawrence: Oh, I was afraid that a day like today would come someday…today.
Phineas: Whadaya mean, Dad?
Lawrence: Oh, your mother's going to meet a lot of exciting and cool people. What if I'm…I'm no longer cool enough for your mum? I'm hardly a rock star, am I? (walking away sadly) I"m afraid I'm hopelessly nerdy.
Phineas: (to his stepbrother) You know, Dad may be a little geeky for the new century, but in the '80s, the rise of the synthesizer allowed even hopeless nerds to rock the charts.
Ferb: Phineas, I know what we're going to do today!
Phineas: Yes. Yes, you do. Hey, where's Perry?

(Cut to Perry on the couch. He puts on his fedora. The sofa cushion flips and he goes under. Cut to Agent P's lair. Some loose change and cash falls out of the chute followed by Agent P.)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P, there you are. Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been spotted playing with a hoop. See what he's up to. (Perry looks scornfully at Monogram.) That's it. That's all we got.
(Agent P straps on a backpack. A spring emerges from under his chair and he launches up out of the cellar doors and into the sky. He presses a button and his hang-glider is released from the backpack. He ejects from the hang-glider into D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus, (hula hooping) as you can see I've been struck by hooping fever. Go ahead, try it. (Perry starts hooping) Like this, yeah. Now do this, with your arms down. (Perry does so and the hoop traps him.) Oh, finally! My hips were about to fall off. Behold, the Alien-inator! It's a projector that will transmit holographic images of space aliens onto the steps of the Tri-State Capital. Then, when everyone is scared witless, I will emerge in my king of the aliens costume and seize control of the entire Tri-State Area. Hee hee! I'm gonna go put it on.

(Cut to Linda and Lawrence's bedroom.)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, presenting that '80s superstar, Max Modem!
(Cut to a closet door with a silhouetted Lawrence. Lights up on Lawrence who is now in a blond wig, wearing a dark pair of shades and in a cyan-shaded jumpsuit with the letter "M" on it, a belt also with the letter "M" on it, white gloves, and black boots.)
Lawrence/Max: You know, I feel strangely comfortable like this. But how can I be a rock star if nobody's ever heard of me?
Phineas: We're not trying to make you into a rock star. We're trying to make you into a has-been. That's much easier.
(Cut to an exterior shot of Danville Arena.)
Stage Manager: (offscreen) Can I have Bag Your Face onstage for your sound check, please?
(Cut to backstage where Linda and Candace walk in.)
Candace: Mom, this is so cool! I've dressed like half of these people here for Halloween! So what do we do now?
Linda/Lindana: If I remember correctly: hair, makeup, wardrobe and a photo session.
Candace: A photo session?!
(They walk into a door with the sign "MAKEUP TALENT ONLY" on it.)
Linda/Lindana: The life of a rock star. Oh, it does have it's charms.
Montage: While "I'm Lindana and I Wanna Have Fun!" plays in the background, Candace and Linda get made up. The scene transitions into a photo session. We then see Linda signing the photos of herself and Candace as Lindana. Candace then adds "'s daughter" and a heart to the signatures.

(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz's lab.)
Doofenshmirtz: Are you ready? Don't peek. (Doofenshmirtz appears wearing an alien costume with a small crown on its head, a cape, and an inexplicable tan.) Ta-da! What, nothing? Wow, tough room.

(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher garage. Phineas and Max Modem are standing with synthesizers.)
Phineas: Okay, Dad, show me what you got.
Lawrence/Max: Right ho!
(Max plays an organ riff.)
Phineas: Woah! Cut cut cut! That's a little too '70s for the '80s. Just check out Ferb.
(Cut to Ferb standing in front of three synthesizers, a synth-pad drum kit, and a sound mixing board. He pushes a button and a bass riff plays.)
Phineas: See, Dad? It's cool to show no effort. Let the technology and machines do the work. (All three push a button on their synths adding to the bass) Primo, Dad! I think you're ready for the big time!
Lawrence/Max: Correction: I am ready to have once been part of the big time.
(Cut back to Danville Arena. The doors open and Max Modem appears with Phineas and Ferb dressed as his security.)
(Song: "What Do It Do?" (instrumental))
Phineas: Make way for Max Modem!
Man #1: Max Modem?
Man #2: Never heard of him.
Man #3: Didn't he do that song?
Woman #1: Yeah, yeah, yeah! I love that song!
Man #4: Oh, I think I had one of his 45s!
Woman #2: I had all his albums!
Man #5: How did he ever land here!
Woman #3: I sang backup for him in Prague!
All: (chanting) Modem! Modem! Modem! Modem!
(Candace and Lindana follow them.)
Candace: Mom, who is that guy?
Lindana: I don't know, but he does seem kind of familiar in a nerdy sort of way.

(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz and Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: Alright, Perry the Platypus, (leading his nemesis to the inator) let's start by placing you right here. There you go. And then, I'll set the timer here. Mustn't forget to open the roof; (cut to an exterior shot of D.E.I. as the roof opens) a little something we learned from the Diarrhea-inator debacle. Right, Perry the Platypus? And set the timer for ten minutes so I can get to the steps of the Tri-State Capital building in time to lead my alien army! Ha! Oh, and don't get any bright ideas about thwarting me while I'm gone, because this inator, it's got a few tricks up its sleeve.

(Cut to the stage of Danville Arena. The crowd can be heard chanting "Lindana!". Cut to the stage. Lindana is bringing her daughter onstage next to her backup singers.)
Candace: But I should be in the wings, Mom. The show's about to start.
Lindana: I wouldn't be here without you, honey. You backed me up all the way. So it's only right that you should back me up onstage.
Candace: Me? Sing?
Lindana: Just relax. You'll do fine.
(Candace gives a thumbs up as the band cues up her hit and the curtain opens.)
(Song: "I'm Lindana and I Wanna Have Fun!")
Lindana: ♪ I'm not Roxanne, I'm not Eileen, I'm not Sharona, ♪
♪ And I don't wanna study, work or stay at home-a, ♪
Singers: ♪ She's Lindana... ♪
Lindana: ♪ I'm Lindana and I wanna have fun! ♪
Singers: ♪ She wants to have fun ♪
Lindana: ♪ I'm Lindana and I wanna have fun! ♪
Singers: ♪ She's Lindana ♪
Lindana: ♪ I'm Lindana and I wanna have fun! ♪
Singers: ♪ She wants to have fun ♪
Lindana: ♪ I wanna, wanna, wanna have ♪
Singers and Lindana: ♪ Fun fun fun! ♪
(Cut to Max Modem backstage speaking over the song)
Max Modem: Look at her, boys, she's magnificent.
Phineas: And you will be, too, Dad. Gentlemen, let's get our nerd on!
(The three go behind the curtain, but not before Max takes one last peek at his wife singing.)

(Cut to Danville City Hall. Doofenshmirtz flies down in his rocket-powered jet skiff.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, good, I'm early! And a killer parking space, too! Score! Time to set up.
Passerby: Nutjob.
Doofenshmirtz: Now let's see. Take over the Tri-State Area speech, and water, in case I get parched during my maniacal rant. Hee hee. Loud-inator. (He gets up on a literal soap box and turns on his loud-inator.) Check, one, two, three.
Girl: Papa, Papa, I wanna see the clown!
Girl's Father: Sally, he's no clown. He's a nutjob.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, ha ha ha! Laugh it up now! A-And when your friends ask what happened to Casual Fridays, you can tell them you opened your big mouth!<

(Cut back to Danville Arena.)
Lindana: Good night, Danville!
Candace: I can't believe I sang backup for Lindana!
Lindana: You can call me "Mom".
Candace: I just sang backup for Mom. Nah, just doesn't have the same ring.

(Cut to the roof of D.E.I. Perry finds the remote to his trap and disables it. He gets in a fighting position but the inator produces a boxing glove and hits him.)
Alien-inator: I am programmed to defend myself against all attacks. You cannot defeat me, Perry the Platypus. Time is up.
(The inator activates. Cut back to the nutjob known as Doofenshmirtz.)
Doofenshmirtz: Elected officials of the Tri-State Area, look to the skies in horror! (The "aliens" arrive) You are being invaded from space by invaders from space! And I, the King of the Aliens, am here to accept your unconditional surrender!
Man: I though he was a nutjob!
Woman: Me, too!
Doofenshmirtz: Now bow down before me. Bow down and I will spare your menial jobs!
Man 2: Do we get to keep our healthcare benefits?

(Cut back to Danville Arena. Lindana and Candace see Max walk by with Phineas and Ferb dressed as robots.)
Stage Manager: (offscreen) Thirty seconds, Mr. Modem.
Lindana: Who is that guy?
Candace: You know, he really does look familiar.
Lindana: Yes. Yes, he does.
(Cut to black)
Announcer: And now (a spotlight hits Max's finger as he pushes a button) the band you've been waiting for: Max Modem and the Mainframes!
(Song: "Alien Heart")
Max Modem: ♪ I think my girlfriend is an alien, ♪
♪ Invading force from Planet 10, ♪
♪ Said she was from out of town, ♪
♪ But I know what she meant...♪
Max Modem and Phineas: ♪ I know she's from another galaxy, ♪
Max Modem: ♪ I don't know just what she's a-doing with me! ♪
♪ She treats my love like a science experiment...♪
Hubble-Bubble!
♪ Does she love me for who I am? ♪
♪ Or does she want to put my brain in a can? ♪
♪ She can have it, cause I never want to be apart... ♪
Fan-girl: Take my leg warmers, Max!
Max Modem: ♪ From her alien heart! ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) Heart! ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) Heart! ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) She's got an alien heart! ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) Heart! ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) Heart! ♪
♪ (She's got an ali— ♪

(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, you can keep the 401(k), but the daycare you're gonna have to pay for out of your own pockets! I-I-I've made enough concessions!
(Cut back to Perry)
Alien-inator: Dr. Doofenshmirtz has programmed me with all of his vast knowledge of you. Your secret agent skills are useless. (Agent P thinks for a moment, then takes off his fedora and goes into mindless pet mode and chatters.) Perry the Platypus, where did you go? I was not informed that your agency had developed a cloaking device. Here, Perry. Perry. Come to— (Perry jumps on the inator toppling it over. The "aliens" disappear.)
Man: Look! The aliens are disappearing!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, great. Now I am a nutjob.
(Perry jumps off the inator. Cut to Danville Arena where the inator ray zaps in its vicinity. Cut back to the song where the alien projections appear on stage with Max Modem and the Mainframes.)
Max Modem: ♪ She's got an alien heart! ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) Pumps like the Dickens! ♪
(Lindana and Candace mimic the dance moves of the alien projections and then giggle.)
♪ (She's got an alien) She's got an alien heart! ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) Heart... ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) Heart... ♪
(Cut to D.E.I. Agent P jets away from the imminent explosion. Cut back to the song.)
♪ (She's got an alien) She's got an alien heart...♪
We're Max Modem and the Mainframes! Thank you, Tri-State Area!
(Max leaves the stage and approaches Lindana.)
Lindana: Nice work, "Max." You've still got it. Although I can't say I remember you having it in the first place.
Max Modem: You weren't so bad yourself. What say we go out for a spot of tea sometime?
Linda: Oh, no thanks. I've got an absolutely wonderful husband back home.
Max Modem: (removing his shades) Yeah, well, you better believe it, Ducky.
Lindana: (embracing her husband) But what did you do all this for?
Max Modem: I just thought you might like it if I were a bit more exciting.
Lindana: Oh, Lawrence, you and the kids are all the excitement I could ever want.
Phineas: (holding the phone) Mom, it's the promoter again! He wants to sign you and Max Modem for an extended tour!
Lindana: Tell him thanks but no thanks.
Candace: WHAT?!?! But what about the coolness, the fame and the fortune?!
Max Modem: Oh, Candace, we don't need those things to be happy.
Lindana: All we need is you guys.
Phineas: Right. Who wants to go on tour when there's so much to do around here this summer?
Candace: Oh, okay. (Agent P jet packs his way down behind her, takes off his fedora and goes back into mindless pet mode.) But if anyone calls offering me a concert deal I'm takin' it!
Phineas: So, Mom, after all these years, how'd you keep your voice in such great shape?
Lindana: Oh, I was lip-synching. Even back then! (Perry chatters) Oh, there you are, Perry!

End Credits
Max Modem: ♪ She's got an alien heart! ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) Heart... ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) Heart... ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) Heart... ♪
♪ She's got an alien heart! ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) Pumps like the Dickens! ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) She's got an alien heart! ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) Heart... ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) Heart... ♪
♪ (She's got an alien) She's got an alien heart...♪



(Scene opens in Candace's room. Candace is on the bed, lying down.)
Candace: Oh, so bored. Bored. Bored. Bored.
(Cell phone rings, Candace picks it up and calls)
Candace: Snoresville Central, Candace Speaking.
Stacy: Oh, good. You know how my mom wants me to take things more seriously and focus on more important things like grades, my future, or becoming a doctor, a lawyer, or a doctor?
Candace: Yeah?
Stacy: Well, she's forcing me to go to this leadership seminar today, and I'll implode with boredom if I go by myself.
Candace: Are you out of your mind?
Stacy: There might be cute boys there.
Candace: Oh, all right, but you owe me big time!
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb watching a TV commercial)
TV Announcer: This year's All Terrain Vehicle goes on the road and in the mud. In the mud and on the road! It's the all new All Terrain Vehicle for All Terrain...seh.
Phineas: Road and mud aren't exactly all terrains. (To Ferb) Somebody ought to build a vehicle that actually goes over all terrains.
Ferb: Two, three, four...
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
Ferb: Five, six, seven...
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?
(Scene shifts to Perry on a skateboard. He rides it across the street to a construction site through a pipeline and arrives at his lair, landing in his seat upside down)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. Uh, oop! Uh, hold on a sec. (grunts while turning his camera upside down) There we go! Doofenshmirtz has been spotted buying television cameras, boom mics, and makeup. Find out what he's up to.
(Perry salutes)
♪ Perry! ♪
(Scene then shifts at the community center)
Baljeet: Ladies?
Candace: Baljeet, this seminar is for high school kids. What are you doing here?
Baljeet: Well, I usually attend college level conferences, but I thought I would dumb it down for the weekend.
Candace: (To Stacy) Uhh, are we supposed to take notes?
(music)
Tedd: Leaders of the Future, let's give it up for...Tedd Shaw! (reveals himself as the crowd applauds) Greetings, Leaders of the Future! I am Tedd Shaw. I may be young, but you're never too young to be a success! So, get ready to learn my easy steps which should be your goals, woo-hoo!
Candace: Oh, brother.
(In the backyard, Phineas and Ferb have their ATV ready)
Buford: So, fellas, what's on the menu for today?
Isabella: An All Terrain Vehicle. With an electromagnetic motor, super rubber tank treads, high speed ceramic body, hydraulics and old remote control.
Buford: Hey, let's take this baby for a spin, and see what she'll do!
(Song: "All Terrain Vehicle")
♪ Up, down, all around, over rocks and underground ♪
♪ In the sky, in the trees ♪
♪ Plowing through a bunch of cheese ♪
♪ Flying through the air, we can buzz a county fair ♪
♪ Tell your momma that we're leaving ♪
♪ Yeah we can go anywhere ♪
♪ Big Top, China shop ♪
♪ Off the cliff and take a drop ♪
♪ Under sea, look at me, I'm talking to a manatee ♪
♪ It's not a submarine ♪
♪ It's not a plane, it's not a train ♪
♪ Come on lets take a ride, we're talking all terrain ♪
♪ Whooo-ooo-ooo we're talking all terrain, yeah ♪
♪ Whooo-ooo-ooo we're talking all terrain ♪
♪ That's right ♪
♪ Cross the tundra, through a cave, surfing on a tidal wave ♪
♪ Over pillows, over nails ♪
♪ Off the road, and off the rails ♪
♪ A tight rope, a trampoline, having tea with the queen ♪
♪ I think you're gonna like my all terrain machine ♪
♪ Whooo-ooo-ooo we're talking all terrain ♪
♪ Whooo-ooo-ooo we're talking all terrain, yeah ♪
♪ And just so that we're clear... ♪
Phineas: We can ride on the road, and in the mud!
♪ We're talking all terrain! ♪
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry enters and gets trapped in a chair)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus, so good of you to volunteer for my cause! Since the cost of evil went up, my alimony checks barely cover my overhead. So, I've come up with a brilliant idea. The Telethon of Evil! With lights and a camera and uh, ooh, and a tote board, look. People will call in and send me money, and you can help man the phones. (puts a phone on Perry's lap) I had trouble finding a station that will put it on, so I invented this: the Preemptinator. With this machine, I can preempt other TV programs! (inhales) As soon as I can figure out if I can plug in the red wire or the green wire.
(Perry looks at the camera disgusted)
(Switch to the community center)
Tedd: So, let's review. We've learned the principal of B.L.A.R.F.: Be Living, Always Really Focused!
Stacy: (snoring)
Candace: That makes me wanna B.L.A.R.F.
Baljeet: I can see it is already working.
Tedd: Now, we go down to another secret of success. N.A.R.G.: Never Abandon Realizing your Goal.
Candace: Isn't that...nary-g?
Tedd: Please hold all questions until the end, thank you. Now, can you see how N.A.R.G.-ing could help you... (at a girl) become president of the United States?
Girl: Yes! Yes I can!
Tedd: (at Stacy) And you! (at Candace) Do you have a goal you never wanna stop realizing?
Candace: Well, yeah. I've wanted to bust my brothers all summer.
Tedd: And have you used these steps?
Candace: Believe me, I've B.L.A.R.F.-ed and N.A.R.G.-ed plenty. I got nowhere.
Tedd: Well, I'm gonna tell you the final step to breaking your old, ineffectual patterns...right after the break! So, don't you go anywhere!
(music, Tedd leaves)
Candace: Stacy, did you hear that? Wake up!
Stacy: (startled) Uhh! It's not my ferret!
Candace: This could really be the answer to me busting the boys. That weird guy is gonna tell us the final step after the break! Can it be that I'll finally achieve my summer goal? (hears revving) Wait, is that...? (sees the ATV) It is, it's Phineas and Ferb!
Kids: Woo-hoo!
Phineas: Hey, Candace, do you wanna give it a try?
(the ATV zooms off)
Candace: (at Stacy) Oh, no. I'm going to do it right this time. Even though every fiber of my being is screaming to tell you to stay here and find out the information, then run frantically out to that ATV and drive my brothers to Mom who'll bust them, I will resist! Yes! I am going to stay right here and break my old pattern!
Stacy: Good choice, Candace. I can't tell you have a p-
(Candace is outside)
Candace: Stacy, take notes for me!
(Outside...)
Phineas: Hey, Candace. What are you doing?
Candace: Let me in!
Phineas: Okay, then, buckle up!
(Back inside)
Chad: Uh, excuse me, do you know if there happens to be any seats left?
Stacy: There just happens to be an empty seat next to me!
(in the ATV)
Candace: Okay, I learn some skill that...Phineas, you're in the drivers seat, why are you operating with a remote control?
Phineas: Candace, We're too young to drive.
Buford and Isabella: Duh!
Candace: Well, no matter, because we're driving this thing home. I'm calling Mom to make sure she's there to see this. (dials phone) You're going too slow! Give me that thing! (takes remote) So, how does this thing work? (presses button, "I'm Lindana and I Wanna Have Fun!" plays, presses another button, activating windshield wipers, presses another button, the ATV does a loop)
Phineas: Maybe give me the remote.
Candace: I got it, Phineas!
(At D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: I hope you're ready for the big show, Perry the Platypus! [plugs the blue plug with the green wire) Because Evil Incorporated is on the air!
(The Preemptinator activates)
(in a man's house)
Announcer on TV: Down as 2 and 2, here's the pitch --
(screen on TV goes to static)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) We preempt your normal programming with the first annual Telethon of Evil! (cut to studio) And now live, because it's evil spelled backwards, your host, Heinz Doofenshmirtz!
(Song: Give Me Your Money Today)
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I want your money ♪
♪ I'm strapped for cash ♪
♪ I need your money ♪
♪ Too lazy to get a job ♪
♪ Give me your money ♪
♪ I'm not being funny ♪
♪ Give me your money today! ♪
(Cut to Lawrence at the dentist)
Lawrence: This is a brilliant work of satire. It's my new favorite show.
(Back at the ATV)
Candace: Hey, I think I'm getting the hang of this. All I need to do is B.L.A.R.F.: Be Living, Always Really Focused. I focused, and it worked.
(cut to a news channel on the air)
Bridgette: And that's how socks sometimes get lost in the dryer. (pause) And cut tape.
(the ATV goes by)
Candace: I'm B.L.A.R.F.-ing! I'm B.L.A.R.F.-ing!
Cameraman: What was that?
Bridgette: I don't know, but it's more interesting than socks. To the news van!
(they drive off)
(Back at D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: And we're back. The Inator Corporation was generous enough to send us a giant check for twenty three dollars. Thank you, Sid and the guys. You do an important job. (pause) That brings our tally up to...
("23" appears on the tote board)
Doofenshmirtz: Twenty three dollars! Uh, let's go to the phones again. (pause) Okay, if no one calls in the next few seconds, the platypus gets it!
(In another house, the scene on the TV switches to a news channel)
Announcer: We preempt this current preemption to bring you another preemption.
Bridgette: This is Bridgette Oshinomi in the news breaker van, we're following an out of control All Terrain Vehicle that is barraling on down Broad Street.
Doofenshmirtz: This is what preempted me! Ugh! The newspeople, they're behind this, and I won't stand for it!
(Perry uses a pair of chompers to cut his trap belt)
Doofenshmirtz: I must destroy them! (riding hovercraft) NOTHING cuts into MY television face time!
(The scene changes to a "no signal" screen with Agent P on it)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, haha, very funny! Everyone's a comedian.
Bridgette: The vehicle looks to be filled with children.
Doofenshmirtz: Good thing I installed a TV screen so I can follow the live coverage. Here's for stealing my ratings! (fires rays at the news van)
Bridgette: Whoa!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, I keep missing!
(Perry runs up, but Doofenshmirtz kicks him away and keeps shooting)
Candace: B.L.A.R.F.! B.L.A.R.F.! B.L.A.R.F.!
(more rays keep firing)
Bridgette: What is going on up there? Are you getting this, Don?
Don: (driving helicopter) We're right above you. Brigitte, have you seen something kinda strange up here?
(Doofenshmirtz appears on the hovercraft's TV screen)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, hey, it's me. It's me. I'm back. Perry the Platypus, look, the -- oh, oh, it's the chopper cam. (singsong) Hello? I'm back. Hi, hi, Mom. Hi.
(Perry the Platypus and news helicopter leave)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, going back to the more dramatic wide angle shot --
(Doofenshmirtz crashes into his building, poking through the tote board in the studio)
Doofenshmirtz: And the final tally is...unbearable pain. And, probably a herniated disc.
(the hovercraft crushes the news van)
Bridgette: And...cut tape.
♪ Perry! ♪
(Switch to the Flynn-Fletcher house. Linda's car pulls up the driveway, so does the ATV. Candace gets out)
Candace: You stay right here, I'm gonna go get Mom.
Kids: Okay!
Candace: Mom?!
(Inside...)
Candace: Mom, Mom, you've gotta come outside! I just drove up in this craaaazy souped up car that the boys invent --
Linda: Wait, wait, wait. You were -- driving -- without adult supervision?
Candace: Well, no, I was operating a remote.
Linda: Oh, so it was a toy car.
Candace: No, no. No, it's a full-sized, and it's --
Linda: You were driving a full-sized car?! Oh, that's it, young lady! You're...GROUNDED!
Candace: But, but, but, the boys --
Linda: Candace, GO TO YOUR ROOM! We will talk about this, later.
Candace: (stomps off) Ugh!
Candace: I thought I did it right this time! Only I'd stay til the end of that seminar! Wait, Stacy's been there all day. (dials phone and laughs chaotically) Stacy!
(Stacy is walking with Chad)
Stacy: Candace, what happened to you? The lecture's over. The gift bags were totally cruddy, by the way. It's just a bag, nothing in it.
Candace: Stacy, you've gotta tell me the last step to achieving successes. The boys' ATV is still here, I still have a chance.
Stacy: Hmm, the last step, I forget. Hey, Chad, do you remember what the last step to achieving your goal thingy is?
Chad: Yes. It's F.R.E.E.P.O.
Stacy: Candace, it's F.R.E.E.P.O. See ya! (hangs up)
Candace: Stacy, hello? But what does that mean? What does it stand for?
(Cut to the kids in the ATV, they are bored)
Ferb: You know, technically we didn't try all terrain.
(Ferb presses a button on the dashboard, activating the car's rocket mode)
Candace: Uh, F.R.E.E.P.O., uh, Frequent Rampages Encourages Enormous Perpendicular Octagons. Uh, Free Raccoons Enter Existential Plastic Origami. Oh...
Phineas: See ya in a bit, Candace! We're going to the moon!
♪ We're talking all terrain ♪
Candace: Aw, F.R.E.E.P.O.



(Scene opens up at the Flynn-Fletcher house, then Phineas and Ferb boredly watching the TV)
TV Announcer: Are you and your family looking for a peaceful vacation getaway? Come visit delightful Danville! We've got grass, milk, and smiles! So come to Danville, pretty please? Brought to you by the Danville Tourist Board.
Phineas: You know, begging is really unbecoming. I mean, I like smiles as much as the next guy, (Ferb smiles bizarrely) and milk is a classic. But what Danville really needs is a biiiiiig tourist attraction. Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
Linda: Bye, Candace! I'm off to make my rounds.
Candace: Bye, Mom.
(There are trucks and noises heard outside)
Candace: Mom! Mom! Mom! (growls in frustration) I'm gonna need some backup. (Calls Stacy) Hey, Stace. Wanna come over and help me bust my brothers?
Stacy: Ooh, sounds like fun, but I have to go to the eye doctor.
Candace: Okay, but just don't get big, thick glasses because then you'd be a nerd, and I couldn't be seen with you.
Stacy: Oh, Candace. You're so shallow.
Candace: I know. I am so shallow.
(Both laugh)
Candace: But seriously, don't get any thick, nerdy glasses. (Hangs up, hears more noises outside) Ooh, as soon as I get some help, you guys are so busted!
(Outside...)
Phineas: Just dump it right there, next to the giant gorilla head.
Isabella: Hey Phineas. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Ferb and I have decided to construct the world's tallest building. Wanna help?
Isabella: Sure. Who wouldn't want to be a part of the "Phineas and Ferb" project?
Albert: Phineas and Ferb? Pish-tosh! I'll take ninja discipline over creative whimsy any day.
Irving: Well, I just think that--
Albert: Irving, you're my little brother. So, it's my duty to teach you all my secrets of self-defense. (Holds up a pair of nun-chucks)
Irving: I'd rather see what Phineas and Ferb are doing.
Albert: What's in the box, anyway?
Irving: It's my old collection of spy cameras. I'm going to bring them to Phineas and Ferb, and see what they can do with them.
(Albert takes the box)
Albert: I'll take those!
Irving: Give them back, Albert!
Albert: (Spills the box) Oopsie!
Irving: Ooh! You pick those up, Albert!
Albert: (Waving nun-chucks) Make me. That is if you're...ninja enough.
Irving: You're...a jerk! I'm gonna go play with Phineas and Ferb. (leaves)
Albert: Fine! Do you realize these cameras are now forfeit!
(Candace approaches him)
Candace: (on her cell phone) Yeah, sure, Jenny, but what have whales ever done for me?
Albert: Well, hello.
(Albert hits himself on the head with the nun-chucks and falls down)
Candace: Fine; if that's the way you feel, I'll get someone else to bust my brothers.
Albert: I'll help you.
Candace: Are you talking to me?
Albert: As a damsel in distress, I have to help you, milady. It's part of my Medieval Knight's Code.
Candace: (scoffs) I'm outta here.
Albert: But don't you wanna bust your brothers?
(Brakes heard, Candace walks back)
Candace: I'm listening.
Albert: Well, have you considered applying the manly science of spy cameras to your problem?
Candace: Spy cameras? Wouldn't it be easier to just show my mom what Phineas and Ferb make?
Albert: I don't know. Is that easier?
Candace: (suddenly realizing) No! No it's not easy! It's never easy! I need help.
Albert: And manly technological surveillance.
Candace: I need...nerd help. Will you help me?
Albert: You have my word. My nerd word.
(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Phineas: Glad to have you on board, Irving! You can pick up your hardhat right over there next to Perry. (Camera pans to hardhats, revealing that Perry's hardhat is on the ground and he is gone) Hey, where's Perry?

(Scene shifts to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P! It appears that Doofenshmirtz has been brushing up on his astronomy. He's rented an award-winning astronomical musical, Supernova? Fabulousnova! We don't know what it means, so we need you to get over there unrealistically fast. Good luck, Agent P! Agent P?
(Agent P is already gone)
♪ Doofenshmirtz, four seconds later! ♪
(Perry drills through the ceiling and drops into the room. Immediately a space helmet drops on top of him and traps him inside)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh. Perry the Platypus, why do you always rush over here just to get trapped? It makes no sense. Ya like that? It's a space helmet. I got a bunch of them used. They still smell like astronaut. I think that's what that is. Anyway, since you're here, let me tell you about my new hobby; making charts and graphs. See, this is a chart of my canteen usage! Which has plummeted since childhood. (Flips the chart to a second one) And this is my evil. I noticed that in any given month, my evilness--that's the red part--stays perfectly constant. Evenly evil. But around the same time each month, there's a spike in background evil, see that, right here? And during that part of the month I actually seem less evil by comparison! And why? Why is it? It's the full moon!
(He pulls away the chart, showing a picture of the full moon)
I mean, werewolves alone must count, for like, 20% of that! How can I compete? Then I realized; if I could rotate the moon, then the dark side would always be facing us, bringing all other evil to a standstill, and making me the only evil game in town!

(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
(Song: Keep on Building)
♪ Stacking steel, laying bricks, ♪
♪ Pounding nails, and moving up quick. ♪
♪ 2-by-4s and RSJs, ♪
♪ Concrete blocks and bales of hay. ♪
(chorus repeats until the line, "It's all up to code")
(You can faintly hear these lines.)
♪ Keep on building ♪
♪ Up to the sky ♪
♪ Keep on building ♪
♪ Birds flying by ♪
(You can faintly hear the chorus.)
♪ Floor after floor after ceiling, ♪
♪ Carry the load ♪
♪ All of our permits in order ♪
♪ It's all up to code ♪
♪ Floor after floor ♪
♪ Now we know what's in store ♪
♪'Nother floor, then a floor, then a floor! ♪
♪ Floor after floor ♪
♪ Now we know what's in store ♪
♪'Nother floor, then a floor, then a floor! ♪
♪ Floor after floor ♪
♪ Now we know what's in store ♪
♪'Nother floor, then a floor, then a floor! ♪
♪ Floor after floor ♪
♪ Now we know what's in store ♪
♪'Nother floor, then a floor, then a floor! ♪
♪ Floor after floor after floor! ♪

(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: So, to recap, I rotate the dark side of the lunar surface towards the Earth, eliminate the full moon and corner the market on evil! What? It's genius. Why are you looking at me like I'm an idiot? Would an idiot build...THIS? (Presses a remote control button. A curtain goes up, revealing a cork with a jellybean taped to it) Oh wait wait, not that, that's just a cork taped to a jellybean...but don't judge it, it's a layered idea. Now behold, the Lunar Rotat-inator! (Pans to outside Doof Inc. Penthouse ceiling rolls back to reveal nothing) Oh wait, wait, it's not up there yet, hold on. Okay, wait, wait, almost there. (The inator rises into view) Okay, there! Now you can behold!

(On the sidewalk in front of the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Albert: Camera one is in position and activated. As soon as the other sixteen cameras are in place, we can render the whole take-down in three dimensions. And busting your brothers will be as simple as a quadratic equation.
Candace: For a nerd, you rock!
(Irving is watching them from the building with a telescope)
Irving: Albert and Candace and spy cameras? So that's your game.
(In space atop the building, which is still being constructed. Everyone is wearing spacesuits.)
Isabella: Hey Phineas, how are we going to know when to stop building?
Phineas: I guess we'll just know when we get there.
(Ferb turns a crank which raises a spire. It rises out of view and a crunching sound is heard. Camera pans out to show that it has hit the moon)
Ferb: We're there.
Phineas: That's one small step for Ferb, one giant building for Danville!
(Inside a van with a giant fake bug mounted on top)
Candace: (looking into the truck's backseat area, which is not shown) So, your father's an exterminator?
Albert: No. Why do you ask?
Candace: (uneasily) No reason.
Albert: Now sit back and watch the magic unfold.
(He presses a button and the cameras come on, but all they show is static)
Candace: Not much of a nerd, are ya?
(They rush outside to discover the cameras missing from their posts)
Albert: Someone has purloined our cameras!
Irving: (from atop a ledge on the building. He is holding the missing cameras by their wires) Hey, Albert! Looking for these?
Albert: IRRRVIIING! You bring those back down here right this instant!
Irving: (tauntingly) Ooh. Why don't you come up here, and endeavor to reclaim them?
Albert: WE SHALL!
Candace: Actually, I don't do high places.
Albert: I SHALL!
(He runs into an elevator, which brings him up to the ledge, but Irving is gone. Albert runs over to the ledge.)
Albert: IRVING!
(Albert looks into the building, which has a rollercoaster inside it, and his jaw drops)
Irving: (as he rides the rollercoaster) Hey, Albert! Pretty neat, huh? Just another creative whimsy from the minds of Phineas and Ferb!
(He stops for a moment in front of Albert)
Irving: (condescendingly) And you want to bust them. (He takes off again)
Albert: I do if you like them! (He jumps into another set of cars and takes off after Irving)
(Song: Quirky Worky Song)
Phineas: (from behind Albert in another car) Hey, Albert! Enjoying the monorail?
Albert: Yeah, well, I was in the neighborhood, and I--OH MY GO-OSH!
Phineas: This is our chess floor. And up here, we have the Medieval Renaissance Fair floor.
Albert: Huz-zah!
Phineas: The new-in-the-box action figure floor. The M.C. Escher floor. And this is the... Oh, that's right, we sublet this floor.
Ferb: That was a mistake.
Office Guy: (to Office Woman) So, what are you doing after work?
Phineas: The rubber ball floor! The barnyard floor! The studio audience floor! And of course there are hundreds of other floors to see, but we'll need to get you fitted for a pressure suit first.
Albert: (Climbing out to join Irving) Thanks, guys.
Irving: (as Phineas and Ferb zoom away) So...what did you think?
Albert: I think you're right. Phineas and Ferb are certifiable geniuses.
Irving: So, does this mean you're going to stop helping Candace?
Albert: (gravely) I gave her my nerd word.
Irving: (shocked) You gave her your nerd word? But now you've only got two left!
Albert: Well, that's on me. (Walks into elevator) And it's on me to see that Phineas and Ferb are busted. And so they shall.....
(Elevator door closes, only to reopen a second later)
Albert: ...a-be.
(Door closes again. Pan to outside the building, where Candace is waiting. Albert comes out)
Candace: Did you get the cameras?
Albert: No, but don't worry. I've done the math. There is no way your brothers won't be busted. Numbers don't lie. This building is so well constructed, there is not a force on this earth that can move it before your mom comes home!
Candace: Then that's it! I win! Through the power of nerd help!
(She starts laughing maniacally as Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, and Irving exit the elevator)
Phineas: Hey, Candace. Working on your cackle?
Candace: You guys are so busted. (Linda's car horn sounds) Ooh, what's that I hear? Oh, that's right. It's the inevitable.
Phineas: Oh. (pause) I thought it was Mom's car.
Candace: (runs from yard) Mom! Mom! Mom!

(Scene shifts to Doofenshmritz Evil Inc. Perry dons a Viking hat, vocalizes an extremely high note, and the window of the helmet shatters)
Doofenshmirtz: Wha?
(Perry runs for him, slips on the jellybean taped to a cork, and falls flat on his face)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha! I told you it was a layered idea! Now, to show the moon who's boss!
(He presses a button and the Lunar Rotat-inator fires, hitting the moon, which rotates. Since the building is attached to the moon, it shudders and begins to rotate with it, rising off the ground as Albert, Phineas, and Ferb look on)
Phineas: Huh. I don't remember adding that.
(In the driveway)
Candace: Mom! Mom! Giant building!
Linda: Just a sec, Candace. Let me grab these groceries. (As the giant building narrowly misses them as it rotates over them) Aaand...there we go. Now what were you saying?
Candace: (With her eyes closed) Look!
Phineas: Hi, Mom!
(For the rest of the conversation, Candace just stands there pointing with a deadpan expression on her face)
Linda: Oh, hi, boys. What did you do today?
Phineas: We tried to make Danville a more interesting place.
Linda: Well, you guys do that just by being you.

(Back at Doofenshmritz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, this doesn't make any sense. The moon is rotating, but the dark side isn't moving. Ohhh, I bet you had something to do with this. Didn't you, Perry the Platypus? You're always messing me up. You're mean. Mean, Perry the Platypus, born mean, that's all. Wait, what are you doing? Making magic fingers at me? Wha--are you even listening to me?
(Perry pushes the inator just a little and it is smashed by the building. Perry then grabs a space helmet and jams it onto Doofenshmirtz's head as his lab coat catches on a pipe and he is towed into space)
Doofenshmirtz: You know, this isn't big enough to trap me!...CURSE YOU, GIANT FLYING BUILDING!
(In space)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, oh, now I think I get it! The light from the moon is just a reflection of the light from the sun! Ah, dummkopf!
(Camera zooms out to show that he is sitting on the edge of the building in space)
I should have rotated the sun.

End Credits
(Song: Keep on Building)
♪ Floor after floor ♪
♪ Now we know what's in store ♪
♪ Another floor then a floor ♪
♪ Then a floor ♪
♪ Floor after floor ♪
♪ Now we know what's in store ♪
♪ Another floor then a floor ♪
♪ Then a floor ♪
♪ Floor after floor ♪
♪ Now we know what's in store ♪
♪ Another floor then a floor ♪
♪ Then a floor ♪
♪ Floor after floor after floor ♪



(Scene opens in Candace's room, where she's calling Stacy Hirano and cutting some pictures)
Candace: I don't know, Stacy, between busting my brothers and trying to make Jeremy my boyfriend in time for school, I just can't seem get anything this summer. Like my "Jeremy and Me" scrapbook. I mean, I have cute pictures of Jeremy and cute pictures of me, but no cute pictures of both of us being cute together! It's a real problem. But time to check on Phineas and Ferb!
(She uses a pair of binoculars to spy on Phineas and Ferb)
Candace: Standing around, dorking it up, boring. There's just too much for one person to do. If only there were two of me, one to bust my brothers and one to be with Jeremy.
(Cut to the backyard, Buford is carrying Baljeet like luggage)
Buford: Look what Baljeet did to my candy bar. He got peanut butter on my chocolate. Look at this mess! Look at it! (shoves the candy bar in Phineas's face)
Phineas: Buford, peanut butter and chocolate are really good together.
Buford: I don't wanna taste two things at one time! It's unnatural.
Phineas: Well, you're in luck. We just finished our Molecular Separator. It's our cool new machine that breaks things down into their components parts. We used it to separate a mule into a horse and a donkey. And to separate shampoo plus conditioner into shampoo and conditioner. Ferb?
(Ferb places the peanut butter-chocolate on a stool and shoots it with a machine. The peanut butter-chocolate turns into a jar of peanut butter and a chocolate bar.)
Buford: Witchcraft!
Phineas: Try it.
(Buford takes the chocolate and eats it)
Phineas: Well?
Buford: Singular goodness. (To Baljeet) Why don't you grab your peanut butter and your swimsuit and meet me at the flagpole. (He and Baljeet walk away.)
Phineas: Come on, let's see what else we can separate.
(Phineas and Ferb walk away. Perry is seen pressing a stone which opens a hatch which he jumps down in. He lands in his lair.)
Monogram: Agent P, Doofenshmirtz has been seen at the Danville public pool, installing some kind of new device. We need you to get there immediately. Good luck, Agent P.
(Agent P salutes and then hurries away)

(Back at the backyard, Candace runs out from the house)
Candace: Those kids are so busted! All I have to do is bring this to Mom. (tries to lift it) Wow, it's heavier than I thought.
(She accidentally shoots herself with it, creating two different Candaces)
Busting Candace: MUST...BUST...PHINEAS AND FERB.
Romantic Candace: Ah, Jeremy.
(They look at each other)

(At the public pool, Doofenshmirtz is seen in a line for a high dive)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, I'm glad you're here. I'm just in line for the high dive. You see, it reminds me of the high dive I knew as a kid at the Gimmelshtump Public Wetness Maker.
(Flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: (Narrating) It wasn't so much of a pool, as it was just a...we'll just say that it only had water in it on alternating Thursdays, and leave it at that.
Anyhoo, in Gimmelshtump, the high dive was an important rite of passage.
Heinz's Father: Are you a man or a schnitzel?
Young Heinz: I'm a man, I'm a man.
(Young Heinz climbs up the ladder, lays on the top and looks down in fear)
Queuing man: Das kind ist ein schnitzel. (That kid is a schnitzel!)
(He and other queuing men laugh)
Doofenshmirtz: (Narrating) With all those people looking and laughing at me, I-I just couldn't do it.
Heinz's Father: Ich habe keinen sohn. (I have no son.)
(Young Heinz sadly follows his father away from the pool)
Doofenshmirtz: (Narrating) After that, my father and I became increasingly distant.
Heinz's Father: Zu nah! (Too close!)
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: Now, I will conquer my fear and jump from the high dive. But you know, I still don't want any of these people to look at me and make fun of me. So I invented the Look-Away-inator! You'd think it would attract a lot of attention at a public pool, but so far no one's noticed it. It must be leaking or something.
(Multiple people walk by and gets hit by the leak, looking away and falling into the pool)
Doofenshmirtz: Anyway, when I do my man making dive, you can bet that no one in the Tri-State Area will be looking. Sure, it may be tough for people who happen to be driving, plus, brain surgeons might have a problem too. But it's really a small price to pay for me becoming a man, right?
(Agent P glares at him)
Doofenshmirtz: You're right. I gotta trap you.
(Some life-rings drop down on Agent P, trapping him)

(Back at the house, Romantic Candace is decorating her room)
Romantic Candace: Romance! lalalalala! It's a Jeremy bedroom.
Busting Candace: O. M. G.
(Busting Candace pulls out her phone and calls Linda)
Busting Candace: Mom, Phineas and Ferb made me!
Linda: Um, I've got some stretch marks that would say otherwise.
Busting Candace: No, I mean, they split me in half. Well, not like I'm cut in half, but they've made another me. Hear for yourself.
(Busting Candace gives the phone to Romantic Candace)
Busting Candace: It's for you.
Romantic Candace: Hi Jeremy!
Busting Candace: Not Jeremy, it's Mom.
Romantic Candace: Oh, hi Mom. Here's Candace.
Busting Candace: See?
Linda: (from the phone) That was a very nice imitation of yourself, Candace. Love ya, bye.
Busting Candace: No, wait! Hello? Grrrrrr.

(Phineas and Ferb walk by)
Phineas: Hi Candace, and hello to you, Candace.
(Phineas walks back)
Phineas: Uh-oh. Okay Ferb, change of plans.
Busting Candace: You need to focus on what's important, you touchy-feely ninny!
Phineas: Hey, guys, so it appears there's been a little mishap. Let's say we fire up the ol' Molecular Splitter in reverse and...
Busting Candace: Forget it! I've only got one thing on my mind, and that's busting you! I'm going to the mall to get Mom.
(She runs out of the room)
Romantic Candace: Wait for me!
(She runs after her)
Phineas: Well, I guess I know what we're gonna do today.
(At the Googolplex Mall, the two Candaces run through the doors)
Busting Candace: Gotta find Mom.
Romantic Candace: Gotta find Jeremy.
(They run off in opposite directions)
(Song: Me, Myself and I)
Candace: ♪ Me, myself and I ♪
♪ Don't see eye to eye ♪
♪ Me, myself and I ♪
♪ Don't get along ♪
♪ Me, myself and I ♪
♪ Can finally say goodbye ♪
♪ This collaboration always felt so wrong ♪
Busting Candace: ♪ There's two of us on the scene ♪
♪ And I don't wanna sound mean ♪
♪ But I'll tell you that I'm happy without me ♪
♪ I've been holding me back ♪
♪ But now I'm on my own track ♪
♪ We're done. Finito! I'm free! ♪
Romantic Candace: ♪ From here on out ♪
♪ We can both exist peacefully ♪
♪ Without all of this struggle and internal strife ♪
Busting Candace: ♪ (Internal strife) ♪
Romantic Candace: ♪ Now that we're separate, we can do anything ♪
♪ So don’t let the door hit you ♪
♪ Have a nice life ♪
Busting Candace: ♪ (Have a nice life) ♪
Busting Candace: ♪ I'm through with myself ♪
♪ I’m better off without her ♪
Romantic Candace: ♪ (Myself and I) ♪
Busting Candace: ♪ I'm through with myself ♪
♪ I'm better off without her ♪
♪ Myself and I ♪
♪ Don't get along ♪
Romantic Candace: ♪ (Without her) ♪
(Romantic Candace walks up to Linda who's at a glasses kiosk)
Romantic Candace: Hi, Mom. Have you seen Jeremy?
Linda: Doesn't he work over at that hot dog stand?
Romantic Candace: (dreamily) Oh, yeah.
(Romantic Candace leaves happily and Busting Candace comes up while Linda's trying on another pair of glasses)
Busting Candace: Mom, Mom! Have you seen me?
Linda: Well, I see you right now. Weren't you looking for Jeremy?
Busting Candace: No.
(Busting Candace leaves angrily)
Glasses Seller: Wow, twins. That's a handful.
Linda: What?
(Back at the public pool, Doofenshmirtz is now first in line for the high dive. He looks at the top nervously as he sees a bird crash into it. He looks to the man beside him.)
Doofenshmirtz: You can go ahead if you want. I'm not in that much of a hurry.
Man: (knowingly) Uh-huh.
Doofenshmirtz: Have fun up there. (chuckles nervously; looks to the kid next in line) So...
Kid: Don’t talk to me, Mister.
(Cut back to the mall, at Slushy Dawg where Jeremy is working)
Jeremy: There you go, little guy.
(Busting Candace walks up)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace.
Busting Candace: Have you seen Candace?
Jeremy: Well, I can see you right now.
Busting Candace: No, no, no, no. Not "me" me. The "me" that isn't me.
Jeremy: (Confused) Uh...
Busting Candace: You know, "blah-blah-blah. Jeremy is so amazing. Hearts, rainbows, and unicorns, blah!" That me.
Jeremy: (Confused) Well, gosh. I guess I could say, yes, I have.
Busting Candace: Where?
Jeremy: (Scared) Nowhere. I mean, not today.
Busting Candace: Ugh! Well, if I come back and I have a flower in my hair, you tell me. Find Candace, find Mom. Bust, bust, bust.
(She runs off and Jeremy turns around before Romantic Candace walks up)
Romantic Candace: Hi, Jeremy.
Jeremy: Uh, hey, Candace. You have a flower in your hair.
Romantic Candace: (chuckles) I know.
Jeremy: Okay, you're kinda scaring me.
Romantic Candace: (sighs contentedly) I could just stare at you all day long.
Jeremy: Listen, I gotta get back to work, but if you like, I can swing by your house after I'm done.
Romantic Candace: Really? I would love that!
Jeremy: Okay then, I'll see you after work.
Romantic Candace: Something to remember me by? (points to her cheek, smiling)
Jeremy: Okay.
(Jeremy leans over to kiss Romantic Candace and she smiles more before she's pulled away by Busting Candace, leaving Jeremy alone)
Jeremy: Okay, maybe later.
(Phineas and Ferb walk up)
Phineas: Hey, Jeremy.
Jeremy: Hey, guys.
Phineas: Have you seen Candace?
Jeremy: Yeah, she was just here.
Phineas: Was she talking about busting or was she oogling over you?
Jeremy: Uh...both. She said something about going to find the "other Candace" and-and Mom and then she went all wild when I mentioned stopping by tonight.
Phineas: Great! So if we just find Mom, we'll find both Candaces.
Jeremy: (Confused) Uh, tell them I say hi.
(The boys leave)
(Back at the public pool, it's Doofenshmirtz turn for the high dive but he simply stares up instead of going)
Kid: Mister, come on. It's your turn. Are you some kind of a schnitzel?
Doofenshmirtz: I am a man! Not a schnitzel. (Climbing up the high dive) I will prove it right now! (scoffs) Nobody calls me schnitzel anymore! I bet he doesn't even know what it means the little... (He reaches the top) Hey, hey, wait a minute. This isn't as bad as I remember...it's so much worse! (Clings onto the diving board)
Kid: (Flatly sighs) Schnitzel.
(In the clothing store, Linda is trying on an outfit inside a changing booth when she hears Busting Candace)
Busting Candace: Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom! She's here! I have Candace here with me! Come out and look for yourself!
(Linda sighs and comes out of the changing room)
Busting Candace: See? (Gestures next to her with eyes closed) Two of us!
(Linda sees Busting Candace but she is alone, standing in front mirrors which make it look like there are three more Candace's)
Linda: Well, actually, right now I can see four of you.
(At this point, Busting Candace discovers she's alone)
Busting Candace: That slippery vixen! Don't move. I'll be right back. (runs off)
Linda: (sighs tiredly) Yes, yes, you will.
(Busting Candace runs past a store)
Busting Candace: Bust, bust, bust, bust, bust.
(Romantic Candace comes out of the store holding a picture frame)
Romantic Candace: My Jeremy is going to love this!
Phineas: There she is.
(He and Ferb go down the escalator to intercept Romantic Candace as Linda walks up to her)
Linda: Well, I'm heading out. You want a ride?
Romantic Candace: But my sugar-boo is still...
Phineas: Candace, isn't Jeremy coming over? You should be home getting ready.
Romantic Candace: Oh, they're right! Mom, let's go!
Linda: How about you kids?
Phineas: Don't worry. We'll be home soon.
(Linda and Romantic Candace leave)
Phineas: One Candace down, one to go.
Busting Candace  Phineas, Ferb! Have you seen the other Candace?
Phineas: We just saw her. She's driving away with Mom.
(Busting Candace lets out an shrieking howl, scaring the boys a bit before she takes off and fisting really angry)
Phineas: If the Molecular Splitter doesn't just disappear when this is over, we should really consider destroying it.
Ferb: Agreed.
(Switches to the car, where Linda listens to her daughter with a slightly twitching eye while Busting Candace is running after the car, unnoticed by the two)
Romantic Candace: My Jeremy, my Jeremy, and I will be forever. My Jeremy, Jeremy, Jeremy will leave me never. Ooh, Jeremy. Yay, Jeremy!
(The car stops and Romantic Candace jumps out while Busting Candace crashes into the back window, which Linda hears)
Linda: What was that noise?
(In the house, Romantic Candace runs up the stairs while Linda carries in bags)
Romantic Candace: Jeremy's coming! Gotta get ready for Jeremy!
(Outside the house, Busting Candace sits up and then growls)
(Linda is in her room when Busting Candace kicks the door open)
Busting Candace: Where is she?
Linda: Where is who?
Busting Candace: Candace, she was with you in the car!
Linda: Yes, "she" was.
Busting Candace: And?
(Back at the pool, Heinz is still clinging to the board, and the people in line are becoming increasingly impatient)
Man: Come on buddy, let's go!
Kid: (has climbed up the diving board) Watch out, schnitzel! (skillfully dives into the pool)
Man: Yeah!
Kid: Boo-yah!
Woman: Now that's a man!
(Doofenshmirtz whimpers pitifully)
(In the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Phineas: Hey, Candace, look who's here early.
(Romantic Candace looks out her window to see, what looks like, Jeremy with his back to her)
Romantic Candace: Ooh! My Jeremy is here! I'll be right with you my love! (disappears from the window to rush to downstairs)
Phineas: Wow, she bought it. (Turns around giving a thumbs up to Ferb, who is dressed up like Jeremy) I guess love is blind.
(At the public pool, Doofenshmirtz seems to have recovered some of his bravery. He is slowly standing up on the diving board, pulling out the Look-Away-Inator's remote.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, okay, I'll show you. My Turn-Away-inator and I are ready to go! (presses the button and everyone at the pool looks to the side, away from Doofenshmirtz) That's right, look away.
(The scene switches to a room where a man is chiseling a giant sculpture, the machine affects him and he accidentally hits the statue with too much force causing it to fall apart.)
Sculptor: (Sarcastically) Fantastic.
(Switches to a medical room, where three brain surgeons are working on a woman's brain. They too are affected by the Look-Away-inator)
Brain Surgeon: Uh, has everyone paid up on their insurance bill?
Woman: I taste lilacs.
(In the Flynn-Fletcher backyard, Romantic Candace skips into the backyard)
Romantic Candace: My Jeremy's here! My Jeremy's here! My Jeremy's here!
(Busting Candace runs into the backyard after her)
Busting Candace: Busted, busted, busted, mom!
Phineas: Ferb, now.
(Ferb pulls on the lever. Instead of combining the two Candaces, it creates eleven more and they're all chattering incoherently)
Phineas: Yikes.
(Linda comes into the backyard)
Linda: All right Candace, I'm here.
(The Look-Away-inator suddenly affects everyone in the backyard, turning their heads to the side.)
(At the pool, Doofenshmirtz is preparing to dive)
Doofenshmirtz: Now I'm ready. (His head suddenly turns to the side) Oh, I didn't realize it would affect me, too! Not ready!
(He shouts as he loses balance, falling down into the water below. His splash hits his Look-Away-inator, rendering it useless)
Doofenshmirtz: (Flailing in the water) Ah, I can't swim! I am a schnitzel! I am a schnitzel!
(Perry jumps into the pool, breaking out of his trap, and tosses a life-ring over Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: (Stops shouting and flailing) Curse you and thank you, Perry the Platypus.
♪ Perry! ♪
(Back in the backyard)
Phineas: What are we looking at?
Ferb: I have no idea.
(He and Phineas look back before activating the Molecular Splitter, combining all the Candace's. After she's combined again, she lands on the stone Perry used to enter his lair. The Molecular Splitter falls into the lair and Phineas and Ferb exchange confused glances afterward.)
Linda: I could've sworn there were more people here. What did you want, Candace?
Candace: (Sighs) Nothing.
Linda: Suit yourself. (Leaves)
(Inside the lair, the Molecular Splitter hits Major Monogram. Another more colorful version of him is beside himself afterwards.)
Singing Monogram: ♪ I wanna sing! ♪ (Laughs)
Major Monogram: I try so hard to keep you under wraps.
(In the backyard...)
Candace: (At herself) I can't do anything right, even with two of me! I can't bust my brothers. I can't even...
Jeremy: There you are, Candace.
Candace: Jeremy?
Jeremy: (Holding the frame Romantic Candace had bought) Your mom said you got this for me at the mall today.
Candace: Uh, no, I mean, that wasn't really me. I mean...not all of me. I mean...oh, this isn't coming out right.
Jeremy: Well, I think it's pretty cool.
Candace: You do?
Jeremy: The only thing is it needs a picture. Anybody got a camera?
Phineas: We're on it.
Ferb: (Holds up a camera) Say fromage.
Candace/Jeremy: Fromage!
(Shows the picture Ferb took, but they were both talking so the picture doesn't look very good.)



Contents[show]
Part 1
(The scene opens in the backyard. Phineas is lying under the tree and Ferb is beside him, reading.)
Phineas: You know, Ferb, one of the best times we ever had was when we built that rollercoaster. (pauses) We should do it again! But this time...as a musical! Whaddya say? We'll do all the same things, except we'll break into spontaneous singing and choreography with no discernible music source!
Ferb: Hmm...what assurance would we have that everyone else will also break into song and do the same thing?
Phineas: I don't know. I think they probably will.
Ferb: Fair enough. I'm in.
(Song: "Hey Ferb")
Phineas: ♪ I know what we're gonna do today, ♪
♪ Though it might sound just a bit cliché. ♪
♪ We can build a roller coaster, but this time with songs and dancing! ♪
♪ 'Cause when we're back in school come next September, ♪
♪ And they ask us we can both remember ♪
♪ Every cool and clever thing we did all summer long, and glancing ♪
♪ Back we're gonna be so glad that we ♪
♪ Didn't sit all day and watch TV, ♪
♪ I don't think anyone can disagree the world is possibilities ♪
♪ And that's what makes me say: ♪
Phineas and Chorus: ♪ Hey, Ferb! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today ♪
♪ Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today ♪
♪ Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!... ♪
Phineas and Chorus: ♪ Hey, Ferb, ♪
Phineas: ♪ Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today ♪
♪ Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today ♪
♪ Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!... ♪
Phineas and Chorus: ♪ Hey, Ferb, ♪
Background Singers: Boredom is something up with which I will not put!
Phineas: ♪ Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today ♪
♪ Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today ♪
♪ Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!... ♪
Phineas and Chorus: ♪ Hey, Ferb, ♪
Background Singers: Boredom is something up with which I will not put!
Phineas: ♪ Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today ♪
♪ Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today ♪
♪ Hey, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! ♪
♪ Hey, Ferb! ♪
Linda: Phineas, Ferb! I'm gonna go pick up a few things. You boys stay out of trouble, okay?
Phineas: Okay, Mom.
(In the driveway, Linda is getting in the car. Candace looks through the window and rushes outside.)
Candace: I'm in charge, right? You did tell them I'm in charge.
Linda: Relax, Candace. Nobody has to be in charge.
Candace: But what if there's an emergency?
Linda: Like what?
Candace: What if, uh... What if a wild moose, a whole herd of them, burst into the house and attack everyone?
Linda: If that happens, you're in charge.
Candace: Yes.
(Candace opens the gate to the backyard.)
Candace: Mom says I'm in charge...conditionally.
Phineas: The condition didn't have anything to do with a moose, did it?
Candace: You know it's funny you should mention that—oh! (Realizing she is getting distracted) I'm watching you.
(Candace goes into the house, watching them when the phone rings. She picks it up.)
Candace: Hello? Oh, hi, Stacy! Mom just went to the store, she left me charge, well, you know, conditionally.
(Switches to Stacy, where she and Jenny are in matching outfits.)
Stacy: Well, that's better than not in charge at all, I guess.
(Switch back to Candace)
Candace: It's all about the varying degrees of authority. First, you've got conditionally in charge; then you've got you're basically in charge; you're mostly in charge; and there's just in charge, completely devoid of modifiers. That's what I'm shooting for. Huh? Wait, what are my brothers doing right now? What do you mean you can see it from where you are? See what?!
(Outside, Phineas and Ferb are building the roller coaster.)
Phineas: Check it out, Ferb. We can see Stacy's house from here.
Candace: Phineas, what is this?!
Phineas: Do you like it?
Candace: Ooh, I'm gonna tell Mom, and when she sees what you're doing, you are going doooooooown!
(Song: "You're Going Down")
(Jenny and Stacy shows up as doo-wop music begins to play)
Jenny/Stacy: ♪ (You're goin' down) ♪
Candace: ♪ You're goin' down when I get Mom to see! ♪
Jenny/Stacy: ♪ (Down to the ground) ♪
Candace: ♪ This ridiculous monstrosity ♪
Jenny/Stacy: ♪ (You're goin' down) ♪
Candace: ♪ You'll never get away with this again. ♪
Jenny/Stacy: ♪ (You're goin' down) ♪
Candace: ♪ You're G-O-I-N-G-D-O-W-N! ♪
Jenny/Stacy: ♪ (You're goin' down) ♪
Candace: ♪ Spread the news from coast to coast ♪
Jenny/Stacy: ♪ (Down to the ground) ♪
Candace: ♪ You're goin' down, your operation exposed ♪
Jenny/Stacy: ♪ (You're goin' down) ♪
Candace: ♪ I could say more but I don't wanna boast ♪
Jenny/Stacy: ♪ (You're goin' down) ♪
Candace: ♪ Get used to butter 'cause you both are toast! ♪
Candace: ♪ If a certain condition arises, ♪
♪ I'm the one to avert the crisis! ♪
♪ You think you're livin' large ♪
♪ But you forgot that I'm the one in charge... ♪
♪ Conditionally! ♪
Jenny/Stacy: ♪ (You're goin') ♪
Candace: ♪ Down, down, down, down, down... ♪
♪ You're goin' down! ♪
Phineas: (at Ferb) See? No discernible music source.
(In the driveway, Isabella is walking up as Candace, Stacy and Jenny are leaving.)
Isabella: Hey, Candace. Hey, Stacy. Hey Jenny. How'd the number go?
Candace: Pretty good, but I'm still angry.
Isabella: Well, I guess I'm up. (walks to the gate)
(Song: "What'cha Doin'?")
Isabella: ♪ I'm just the curious girl 'cross the way ♪
♪ Every day I come over, and here's what I say... ♪
♪ Whatcha doin', whatcha doin'? ♪
♪ What's the day's activity? ♪
♪ Whatcha doin', whatcha doin'? ♪
♪ By any chance could it include me? ♪
♪ Whatcha doin', (Fireside Girls: Whatcha doin'?) whatcha doin'? ♪
♪ I don't mean to disturb. ♪
♪ Whatcha doin', (Fireside Girls: Whatcha doin'?) whatcha doin'? ♪
Isabella and the Fireside Girls: ♪ You know it's not really directed at Ferb, ♪
♪ When I say-ay-ay-ay-ay... ♪
♪ Whatcha doin'? ♪
Isabella: ♪ Don't ya know, Phineas? You have no idea ♪
♪ That every day I'm just dyin' to see ya... ♪
And say...
♪ Whatcha doin', (Fireside Girls: Whatcha doin'?) whatcha doin'? ♪
♪ I really wanna know ♪
♪ Whatcha doin', (Fireside Girls: Whatcha doin'?) whatcha doin'? ♪
♪ Can I be part of the show? ♪
Isabella and the Fireside Girls: ♪ When I say-ay-ay-ay-ay... ♪
♪ Whatcha doin'? ♪
Phineas: Hey, Isabella.
Isabella: What'cha doin'?
Phineas: Building a roller coaster.
Isabella: Again? Cool. (At Ferb) Hey, Ferb!
(Ferb waves)
Isabella: Still a man of few words, I see.
Phineas: Nah, you missed it. Earlier he had two lines.
Isabella: Wow, chatty.
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?
(Perry walks around the corner of the house. He jumps up, puts on a fedora and walks into a hole in the wall. He goes down a lift, into a lair, where he gets an "Incoming Message")
Major Monogram: Good morning Agent P. The evil Dr. Doofenshmirtz is up to his old tricks. For reasons unknown to us, he bought up 80% of the country's tin foil. (He stops, looking a bit surprised) Carl, didn't-didn't he already do that?
Carl: (off screen) Yes, sir. At the beginning of summer.
Monogram: Well, all right then. Well, Agent P, go out there and do the same thing you did last time.
(Agent P salutes and runs off)
Monogram: Good luck, Agent P. Ah, the world of a field agent, out in the thick of things. Not like me.
(Song: "Monogram Box Song")
♪ My whole world is this screen ♪
♪ Just four walls of a rectangle ♪
♪ But I can dare to dream-- ♪
(The lights suddenly turn off)
Monogram: Carl!
Carl: (off screen) Oh, sorry, sir. I thought you were done. You want me to turn 'em back on?
Monogram: Nah, forget it. The moment's gone.
(Agent P is flying in his platypus-themed hovercraft. He notices Phineas and Ferb and pulls his fedora down to hide from them as he flies past)
Phineas: So the way I see it, the solid fuel rockets kick in at the mall parking lot. Then we release the snakes during our corkscrew around the interstate. I'm gonna go get the snakes.
(He leaves and Ferb puts on his mask and uses the blowtorch.)

(Candace runs into the store)
Candace: Mom, you've gotta come home right now.
Linda: Let me guess, a herd of wild moose are in our living room?
Candace: No. Besides, it's mooses.
Linda: No, I think the word "moose" is already plural.
Candace: Mom, trust me, it's mooses...or meese. Do you want me to get a dictionary?
Linda: Is this what you came here for?
Candace: No, Mom! You've gotta see what Phineas and Ferb are doing! They're a building a roller coaster!
Linda: Candace, you've already used that one.
(Song: "Mom Look")
Candace: ♪ Mom, look, don't roll your eyes at me! ♪
♪ Mom, look, just come over and see. ♪
♪ Mom, look, it shouldn't be so hard! ♪
♪ Mom, look, they built it in the backyard. ♪
♪ Once they made it winter in June, ♪
Linda: I didn't see it.
Candace: ♪ Built a rocket to the moon. ♪
Linda: I didn't see it.
Candace: ♪ Mom, they cause me so much pain! ♪
Linda: Now, Candace...
Candace: ♪ Once they even gave me Perry's brain! ♪
Linda: Oh, for crying out loud.
Candace: ♪ They built a submarine, a time machine, ♪
♪ A haunted house that made me scream, ♪
♪ Drove cattle through the mall, ♪
♪ Built a giant bowling ball, ♪
♪ Blew me up to fifty feet, ♪
♪ A chariot dragged me down the street, ♪
(Candace stops to catch her breath)
Background Singers: ♪ La la la la la la la la ♪
Candace: ♪ Made their stupid clothes a fashion craze, ♪
♪ Shoelace tips a household phrase, ♪
♪ Shot me through a circus tent, ♪
♪ Always asked where Perry went, ♪
♪ A lava flow destroyed my face, ♪
♪ A giant roller derby race, ♪
♪ Thawed a caveman out of ice, ♪
♪ Built a roller coaster twice! ♪
Linda: Candace, seriously, isn't Phineas a little young to be a roller coaster engineer?
Candace: Well, yes. Yes, he is.
(Switches to Phineas in a car factory with the manager)
(Song: "Aren't You a Little Young?")
Building Engineer: ♪ Aren't you a little young to build a roller coaster? ♪
Phineas: Yes. Yes, I am.
Building Engineer: ♪ Well, I must say that I'm really quite impressed, ♪
♪ But all your permits are in order. ♪
♪ Don't forget the bricks and mortar ♪
♪ And if you need a power loader, be my guest! ♪
Though if I'm pressed,
♪ I'd say you look a little young to drive a forklift. ♪
Phineas: Yes. Yes, I am.
Building Engineer: ♪ It's good to see a younger guy like you, ♪
♪ Who's creative and ambitious, ♪
♪ A little bigger than his britches, ♪
♪ And who's got a fresh, exciting point of view ♪
Yes, it's true.
♪ That you seem a little young to do the things that you do, ♪
♪ Even with all the moxie you've got. ♪
♪ Yes, you seem a little green to be controlling this machinery. ♪
Phineas: ♪ Yeah, I get that a lot. ♪
(The scene changes to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
♪ Where being evil not debat- ♪
You know, I should really write the rest of that someday.
(Perry jumps in from the window)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus, what a surprise. And by surprise, I mean not a surprise at all. Let me show you what I've been working on.
(Doofenshmirtz presses a button which activate arms that grabs Agent P)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha ha ha! I, Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz, have covered the entire eastern seaboard in tin foil...again. But this time when I put my giant magnet next to my ingenious Magnetism Magnifinator, I will pull the East in a westerly direction, thereby reversing the rotation of the Earth! I know I tried this before but that was with a Magnifier this is a Magnifinator. See, I added the suffix –inator. It's a completely different ball game. I know you're probably expecting some tragic back story, explaining why I want to reverse the rotation of the Earth. But I'm not gonna go there. You know why? Well, I'll tell ya.
(Song: "Back in Gimmelshtump")
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Back in Gimmelshtump ♪
♪ I always had to keep it real! ♪
♪ 'Cause when you grow up in Gimmelshtump ♪
Young Heinz: (as a lawn gnome) ♪ Your childhood is less than ideal! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ So I don't dwell on how I'll crawled my way out of the gutter ♪
No, I don't!
♪ When people ask me what I mean, I say ♪
♪ D-D-D-Do I stutter! ♪
(Suddenly changes to a show tune)
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ But I'm no longer a hater ♪
♪ 'Cause I got an Inator ♪
♪ And an over-complicated scheme ♪
♪ I get a couple of checks ♪
♪ Every month from my Ex ♪
♪ So I can finance my coming regime! ♪
♪ And though my past was a wreck ♪
♪ I won't let it affect ♪
♪ My aspirations to cause mass hysteria ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm as sure as can be ♪
♪ That it's my destiny ♪
♪ To be the ruler of the Tri-State Area! ♪
Yeah!
Background Dancer: So, uh, are we done? 'Cause I gotta pick up my kid from school.
Doofenshmirtz: One second, just wait 'til it goes to black.
(The screen did as it was told and goes black)

After Part 1, Before Part 2
Doofenshmirtz: (during black screen) All right, now you can go.

Part 2
(In the store)
Candace: But, Mom, I'm telling you, they're building it, and it's huge!
Linda: And I’m telling you, you've used this story before.
Candace: Yeah, but this time, it's a musical!
(Ferb puts up a poster. Candace goes over to it.)
Candace: "Phineas and Ferb present the Coolest Coaster Ever, now open"? Mom!
(She runs off just as three kids come over to it.)
Pedro: Hey, the Coolest Coaster Ever! You think we'll get in free with this flyer?
Another Kid: We didn't last time. Maybe we should take it just in case.
(They tear it down and go to leave when Buford steps in their way)
Buford: Hey, if anyone's gonna ride this thing, it's gonna be me. Not one of you lousy extras.
(They run off, just before Candace pulls Linda to where the poster had been hanging.)
Candace: Here, look, look, look, see? I told you I'm not crazy! I told you!
Linda: And you're not crazy because?
(Candace looks to see the poster's gone, she screams.)
Linda: I see your point, Candace. No crazy person would scream at a post like that. I'll be in the dairy section if you want to come yell at some cheese. (leaves, but comes back) Would you like that, honey? Would you like to yell at some cheese?
Candace: A little.
Linda: Well, c'mon, then.
(In Agent P's lair)
Monogram: I hope Agent P is having good luck like I told him to.
(Song: "Monogram Box Song")
♪ My whole world is this screen ♪
♪ Just four walls-- ♪
(He is cut off when the scene suddenly changes to the backyard where kids are gathered in front of a stage. Ferb walks onstage and taps the microphone. He stands there for a second before he suddenly dances but quickly stopping and stepping aside as Phineas come up from a trapdoor.)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, children of all ages! May I present to you a spectacle most of the morning in the making! Mark your calendars because you will want to tell your grandchildren about the day you rode the Coolest...Coaster...EVER!
(Ferb reveals the roller coaster. After the camera finishes panning up, a bird crashes into the top, falling down.)
Phineas: And this time it's a musical.

(On the roller coaster)
Phineas: To fasten, insert the tab into the metal buckle. To release, just pull back on the- (He drops the seat belt) Oops.
(Song: "Rollercoaster")
Background Singers: ♪ (Rollercoaster, roll, rollercoaster) ♪
Isabella: (scared) Phineas, are you sure this is safe?
Phineas: Of course.
Background singers: ♪ (Rollercoaster, roll, rollercoaster) ♪
Phineas: ♪ It's like a leisurely drive around downtown, ♪
♪ But it starts with a 3 mile drop straight down! ♪
♪ And now keep your head and hands and feet inside the ride, ♪
♪ Not a written rule but it's strongly implied. ♪
♪ Permanecer sentados, por favor! ♪
♪ Scream if you want more! ♪
That's right!
♪ Cork screwin' 'round the interstate, ♪
♪ With peanut butter and rubber snakes! ♪
♪ Clear the way, move over, ♪
♪ Look out, Bud. ♪
♪ Here comes the mud! ♪
Background Singers: ♪ (Rollercoaster, roll, rollercoaster) ♪
Phineas: Look out!
♪ Right side up and upside down ♪
♪ Don't ask me to talk ♪
♪ Can't tell a verb from a noun ♪
♪ And I'm screaming like a baby ♪
♪ Who's afraid of a clown ♪
Buford: I'm glad I'm wearing trousers
That are already brown!
Phineas: ♪ It'll twist your belly ♪
♪ It'll turn your gut ♪
♪ Man, is this ride sweet or what? ♪
♪ We go: ♪
Phineas and passengers: ♪ Ah ah ah! ♪
Ferb: ♪ We go: ♪
Phineas and passengers: ♪ Ah ah ah! ♪
Ferb: ♪ We go: ♪
Phineas and passengers: ♪ Ah ah ah! ♪
♪ Yeah rollercoaster ♪
Buford: I got the poster!
Background Singers: ♪ (Rollercoaster, roll, rollercoaster) ♪
♪ (Rollercoaster, roll, rollercoaster) ♪
♪ (Rollercoaster, roll, rollercoaster) ♪
♪ (Rollercoaster, roll, rollercoaster) ♪
(Back with Doofenshmirtz and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: So now, I'm left holding a ten gate house in a twelve gate neighborhood. My accountant wants me to walk away from the whole thing. But, like, I can't do that. Just because I'm evil doesn't mean I don't care about my credit rate.
(Agent P hits a screw toward Doofenshmirtz with his tail, but he ducks)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha! You missed!
(The screw bounces off the wall, flying up to the ceiling. It hits a line and bounces back, going into Doofenshmirtz's foot)
Doofenshmirtz: Aaahh! Ow, ow, ow, ow, owww!
(Doofenshmirtz, as he's jumping around holding his foot, accidentally bumps into the button that controls the arm restraints, releasing Perry the Platypus. Agent P quickly attacks him. While they're fighting, Doofenshmirtz rolls a battery cart toward him. Perry jumps over it easily, and it falls outside through a window.)
(Outside the building)
Farmer's Wife: I can't believe you walked all the way to the service station to get the jumper cables, but you didn't bring the battery cart. What did you think a battery cart was just going to fall out of the sky?
(The battery cart lands next to the farmer)
Farmer's Wife: Okay. (smiles hopefully) What did you think a million dollars was just going to fall out of the sky?
Farmer: It doesn't work that way.
Farmer's Wife: Well, how does it work then!
(Back with Perry and Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Now, you are too late! (He pulls a lever, activating the Magnetism Magnifinator) Quake in your boots and watch helplessly as the unimaginable electromagnetic forces, pull the eastern seaboard, thereby reversing the rotation of the--
(The tinfoil comes off of the buildings)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, that didn't work.
(The tin foil forms into a giant ball, flying through the air)
Doofenshmirtz: And now we have a two ton ball of tin foil traveling two hundred miles an hour directly at us! Quickly, we must separate the magnet from the Magnifinator before it is too late!
(He and Perry try to move the magnet and the Magnifinator before Doofenshmirtz stops.)
Doofenshmirtz: Is it just me or is this a serious déjà vu moment? I feel like I've totally been here before. You were there, the tin foil was coming, and I said "Quickly, we must separate the magnet". Huh. Oh, well, weird. Now, where was I? Oh yeah. Aaaahhh! (Resumes trying to move the Magnifinator)
(In the store, Candace is seen yelling at some cheese)
Woman: Man, is she mad at that cheese
(Children screaming can be heard in the distance)
Candace: Wait a minute. What's going on out there?
(She goes outside and sees that the roller coaster goes right through the parking lot)
Candace: Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! Mom?! Mom!?! (She runs back inside.)
(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: It's no use! It's no use, we are doomed!
(Agent P sees a helicopter. He jumps onto the magnet and fires a grappling hook at it. He quickly wraps some of the rope around the magnet. The helicopter flies off, taking the magnet with it.)
Doofenshmirtz: You did it! You saved us, Perry the Platypus! You saved us-again, again with the déjà vu. You were up there, I was saying, "You saved us." And then, hm, and then something came from that direc- (The tin foil ball crashes into the building) Curse you, déjà vu!
(The magnet pulls a piece of the Magnetism Magnifinator onto it, and gets stuck on the coaster, which then follows the helicopter into the sky.)
(At the exact moment, Candace pulls her mother into the parking lot.)
Candace: Look, look, look, see?
(Linda looks to see the parking lot just like normal.)
Linda: (pause) Okay, I give up. What am I supposed to be looking at?
(Candace looks to see it's disappeared.)
Candace: No, it's not possible!
Linda: I'm gonna go get the cart.
Candace: I was right here, and it was huge! (She sees the roller coaster being carried away by the helicopter.) Mom!
Linda: Time to go. I've got frozens.
Candace: Okay, so you think that Phineas and Ferb are still under that stupid tree in the backyard, right?
Linda: Well, yes. That would be my guess.
(Candace grabs the cart, running to the car.)
Candace: Fine. Then let's go home, now!
(Agent P sees that the helicopter is smoking and cuts the rope. He drops down onto the coaster and in the cart, right behind Phineas and Ferb.)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
(Perry chatters.)
Phineas: Nice hat, Isabella.
(Isabella takes off Agent P's fedora and looks at it, a bit confused.)
(The car goes to the end of the track and goes into a construction area, it eventually end up getting flung into the air.)
Phineas: Funny, I don't remember this in the blueprint.
(An airplane picks up the roller coaster by the plane's tail)
Phineas: And I'm sure this is new.
(Candace sees the airplane from Linda's car and laughs somewhat psychotically, and blinks with one eye at a time.)
Linda: I worry about you sometimes, Candace.
(The coaster car drops down and onto the Statue of Liberty, bending it and throwing the car toward Mount Rushmore. The roller coaster circles in Theodore Roosevelt's glasses before flying out and past a herd of moose)
Phineas: You know, if they break into our house, Candace is in charge.
(The car lands on a pine tree which bends lowering them down toward a Mr. Slushy Burger stand)
Phineas: Oh, hey, Jeremy.
Jeremy: Hey, Phineas. Anybody want fries?
Phineas: Nah, we're good.
Jeremy: Oh, and say Hi to your sister for me.
(The tree straights out again and throws them to Paris, France. They get stuck on the Eiffel Tower just like they had with the tree.)
French Man: Crêpe, Suzette?
Phineas: What do you say, Suzette? You want a crêpe?
Suzette: No, thank you.
(The Eiffel Tower straightens out and the roller coaster is flung into orbit. Meap flies past and stops to wave to Phineas and Ferb, who wave back. The coaster suddenly falls back down toward the Tri-State Area. All the other kids scream while Phineas and Ferb merely look down before Phineas turns to Ferb.)
Meap: Meap.
Phineas: It was good to see Meap.
(Linda pulls into the driveway and Candace jumps out of the car, laughing psychotically again.)
Linda: Okay, we're here. Are you happy, Candace?
(Horror sting, Candace opens the gate to see Phineas and Ferb are not there.)
Candace: Yes! (To Linda) See, Mom? I told you they weren't there!
(Candace opens the gate and gestures toward the tree with her eyes closed, as we hear a rustle of leaves. Linda pokes her head through the gate as well. She smiles after seeing the boys.)
Linda: Hi, boys. (At this point, Candace opens her eyes and her mood changes to shock.)
(Phineas and Ferb are now sitting under the tree.)
Phineas: Hi, Mom.
Linda: Come on, Candace, help me with the groceries.
Candace: But, but, but, but, but, but, but, but-- (continues under)
Linda: Let's go. (She pulls her away)
(In the backyard, kids suddenly start coming out of the tree.)
Kid: Hey, Phineas, that was great!
Pedro: Way too cool!
Third Kid: That was awesome! Can we do it again?
Phineas: Sorry, only one ride per customer.
Isabella: That was great, Phineas. So, what are you gonna do tomorrow?
Phineas: Well, you know what they say: carpe diem.
Isabella: Excuse me?
Phineas: Carpe diem. It's Latin for "seize the day".
Ferb: Or you could say "seize the day" was English for "carpe diem".
Phineas: Yes. Yes, you could.
(Song: "Carpe Diem")
Phineas: ♪ Well, we hope you all enjoyed the show ♪
♪ Hope it was not anti-climatic ♪
♪ Now there's something we want you to know ♪
♪ And we don't want to sound didactic ♪
Phineas and entire cast: ♪ But if there's one thing we can say ♪
♪ I know it sounds a bit cliché ♪
♪ There's no such thing ♪
♪ As just an ordinary day ♪
♪ And you don't have to build a roller coaster ♪
♪ To find your own way to make the most of ♪
♪ These days of summer ♪
♪ And dance to the beat of a different drummer ♪
♪ Just grab those opportunities when you see 'em ♪
♪ 'Cause every day's a brand new day, you gotta carpe diem ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh ♪
(The music stops)
Kenny Ortega: Alright, people, that was fabulous, but I want to work on one thing.
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, world renowned choreographer, Kenny Ortega!
Kenny Ortega: Thanks, Phineas. All right now let's make sure that when we sing the chorus we hit that straight arm. All right? Straight arm on both sides. Now. One more time, performance level. Five, six, seven, eight.
Entire cast: ♪ And you don't have to build a roller coaster ♪
♪ To find your own way to make the most of ♪
♪ Every minute ♪
♪ No more waiting for the right time, you're in it ♪
♪ Just grab those opportunities when you see 'em ♪
♪ 'Cause every day's a brand new day, baby, carpe diem ♪
Martians: ♪ Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh....♪
Santa, Blay'n, Clewn't, and Agents: ♪ Ooh ♪
Love Händel: ♪ Every day's a brand new day, baby, carpe diem ♪
Ba-dink-a-dinks: ♪ Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh.... ♪
Professor Destructicon, The Regurgitator and entire cast: ♪ Every day's a brand new day ♪
Haney and entire cast: ♪ Baby, carpe diem ♪
Agents: ♪ Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh.... ♪
All: ♪ Every day's a brand new day ♪
♪ Carpe diem ♪
(Perry chatters)

End Credits
(In Agent P's lair)
Carl: (offscreen) Oh, c'mon, sir.
Monogram: No, Carl, the moment is gone.
Carl: (offscreen) Sir?
Monogram: I got cut off twice already.
Carl: (offscreen) But, Sir, you're very good.
Monogram: I am?
Carl: (offscreen) Yes, Sir. I've heard you practice.
Monogram: Well, I have been practicing.
Carl: (offscreen) Yes, Sir. And, like the song says, carpe diem.
Monogram: Well, you can't argue with Latin, can you?
Carl: (offscreen) No, you can't, Sir.
Monogram: Well, alrighty then. (He clears his throat)
♪ My whole world is this screen- ♪
(The credits end, cutting him off.)
Monogram: Oh, come on!



(Scene opens up on the Ferb-Fletcher house.)
Lawrence: (offscreen) Imagine you're a teenager...
(Cut to the kitchen where Lawrence is talking to Phineas and Ferb in front of a jukebox.)
Lawrence: 1957. You place your shiny, hard-earned nickel into the coin slot. Think of it: all your favorite bands playing all their greatest hits at any time you want. You make your selection, guiding your chosen 45-RPM disc onto the magical turning table, center stage. Then, with the gentle noise an arm holding the needle lowers itself and finds its way into the groove. You turn around knowing the song you've chosen more than anything else twirls the world what you're all about!
(Song: Jammie Lad)
Jukebox: ♪ I'm a jammie lad ♪
♪ I've got the smashing bird ♪
♪ And my trousers are mobbed and groovy ♪
Lawrence: Hmm... and this leads directly to the 1960's. (unplugs the jukebox) Oh, well, time to get this beaut to the antique shop. (wheels it away) Ta, boys!
Phineas: All your favorites bands playing all their greatest hits any time you want. Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! Hey, where's Perry?

(Cut to Perry in the garage by the station wagon. He puts on his fedora and jacks all the way down to his lair.)
Major Monogram: Morning Agent P, we have a situation here, the royal Princess Baldegunde from Drusselstein is in town. She's here to give the "Drusselsteinian Favorite Son" Award to Mayor Roger Doofenshmirtz during the unveiling of the new Danville Opera House. We assume Dr. Doofenshmirtz will do something to disrupt the ceremony. He's been buying up all the claw machines in the Tri-State Area. We don't know exactly what his plan is, but do the math: Princess, Opera house, claw machines, stuffed animal. You put that together and you get a...Claw-Princess-Animal, uh, Stuffed-Claw-House--
Carl: (offscreen) Uh, ooh ooh ooh ooh...




Carl: Or a...or a, Singing Animal Claw-Clawpera House,Stuffy Stuffness!


Major Monogram: A Singing Claw-ClawingClawing House with a-


Major Monogram: It's terrifying, you must stop Doofenshmirtz and make sure the princess is safe. We don't actually have a photo of her, but whatever, she's a 15 year-old girl, they all pretty much look alike... Carl, put up a picture of a 15 year-old girl! (A picture of Candace appears on screen).... And now put a crown on her. (A crown is superimposed onto Candace's head) There! There's your princess.
Carl: (offscreen) Oh wait sir, I found a picture of the actual princess.
Major Monogram: All right, put it up there. (A picture of the princess appears and she has an uncanny resemblance to Candace) Oh, wow, what are the odds?
Carl: (offscreen) Well, it is a cartoon, sir.
Major Monogram: What did I tell you about breaking the fourth wall, Carl?
Carl: (offscreen) Sorry, sir.

(Cut to the streets of Danville where a horse-drawn carriage is making its way down)
Man: (Drusselsteinian accent) At two o'clock, you have gala ball. At 2:30, you have premiere gala. At three o'clock, you have Gala-Gala Oxen Free.
Princess Baldegunde: (looking up from a magazine, also speaking in a Drusselsteinian accent) Yes, yes. But when do we make shopping at fun American mall time?
Man: Well, we have eleven minutes until gala gathering, so maybe we make six minutes for American shopping at mall.
Princess Baldegunde: (gasps) Oh, thank you, Royal Fake Daddy Chaperone Servant Guiserblint!
(Cut to the Googolplex Mall.)
Candace: (on phone) Ah, Stacy, I tell my mom I'm heading to the mall to get some makeup and she hands me a list of other stuff I have to get. Why do I have to do everything? Shop at the mall, bust my brothers.
(Cut to Stacy in her bedroom)
Stacy: Technically, you don't have to bust your brothers.
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: Oh, really, Stacy? Well, they're not gonna bust themselves! Oh, great, a sale. Now guess who's gonna have to go in there and try stuff on? Call ya later, Stace. (hangs up and walks in) Since I have to do everything! (gasps)
(Candace looks at a dress she likes. Princess Baldegunde sees the same dress and gasps. They both grab at it and fight for it before Candace pulls both the dress and the Princess and they topple over and gasp.)
Princess Baldegunde: You are my doppelgänger!
Candace: Your doppel-who?
Princess Baldegunde: My mythological exact twin! My double who walks Earth same as me.
Candace: Woah! Cool! I wonder if I have a doppelgänger, too.
Princess Baldegunde: Yes, that is me. We are for each other doppelgängers.
Candace: Wait a second. Does this mean if we accidentally touch, we'll rip apart the very fabric of the universe?
Princess Baldegunde: Maybe. (She touches her twin's shirt, nothing happens) We live! I am Princess Baldegunde of Drusselstein.
Candace: And I am Candace of Flynn.
Princess Baldegunde: We should hang out today and make freaking out on unsuspecting passersby.
Candace: I'd love to, but I gotta finish shopping and get back to my brothers who are making some impossible thing in the backyard.
Princess Baldegunde: (gasps) You make life like American teenage girls on TV! For me, I do nothing, because everything is done for me at clap of hands. (clap clap)
Guiserblint: Yes, Your Highness?
Princess Baldegunde: No, no, sorry. You may go.
Guiserblint: I may go. (leaves)
Princess Baldegunde: See? I never get to do anything for myself.
Candace: And I have to do everything for myself.
Candace and Princess Baldegunede: (gasp) I got it!
Candace: Let's go to the laundromat and fill the dryers with cheese!
Princess Baldegunde: What?! No! Let us trade lives. Oh! I thought for sure on same page we were. Hmm. Come, Candace of Flynn.
Candace: Oh, trade lives! Yeah, good.
(Flip to the fitting rooms. The Princess comes out wearing Candace's wardrobe but still wearing her crown.)
Princess Baldegunde: Wow! Never before has such cheap fabric touched royal skin.
(Candace comes out in the Princess' clothes)
Candace: This is like I'm wearing a cloud of butter. Say, don't princesses need to know a lot of manners and stuff?
Princess Baldegunde: Nope. (putting her crown on Candace's head) All you need is this. (gasp) They come! Remember, clap clap. (she runs off)
Candace: (waves) Good luck.
Guiserblint: Did you enjoy your royal six minutes in the mall, Your Royal Highness?
Candace: Yes...I...am. (clap clap) Bring me a glass of water (Guiserblint produces a glass) and a cracker. (A woman behind her gets a cracker.) Okay, bring me an x-ray of a kangaroo with three legs. (Guiserblint shows the X-ray, while another man holds up three mannequin legs) No, no, the kangaroo has three legs. (Another man shows the x-ray of the kangaroo with three legs) Ah! There you go.
(Cut to the backyard.)
Phineas: I guess we could send out invitations, but that's the good thing about a giant jukebox: You build it, the party comes to you.
Princess Baldegunde: Pinnayus and Ferb! Just look at you two! You two are my younger brothers! And of course, I am Candace, your big sister, am I not?
Phineas: Yes...
Princess Baldegunde: "Yes" is correct! And shall we play together today, yes?
Phineas: Um, sure. We're gonna construct a giant jukebox here in the backyard.
Princess Baldegunde: (clapping) Oh, goody! Giant construction project is my most favorite game!
(Isabella, Baljeet and Buford enter)
Isabella: Hey, Phineas! Whatcha doin'?
Princess Baldegunde: Today, we shall make play here in the backyard as constructor persons. And we shall make a giant-sized jukebox. It is a most joyful way for all of us to make play, is it not?
(Isabella, Baljeet and Buford simply stare at the Candace impostor.)
Buford: I'm outta here.

(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Dirigible)
♪ Doofenshmirtz in a blimp again ♪
(Perry jet packs onto the blimp. Cut to Doofenshmirtz next to a crane machine in the blimp.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus. It's ironic that you look like a stuffed animal in one of those claw machine games. And by "ironic"... (Doof pushes a button on the claw machine, and the claw grabs Perry, trapping him) I mean "totally flat-out ronic." And speaking of claw machines, (showing a joystick on another side of the blimp) I've gathered up all the arcade machines in the Tri-State Area to make one giant Super Claw (cut to the Super Claw under the blimp)....inator. My fascination with these started when I was just a little boy.
(Flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) Back in Gimmelshtump, one day, when I was walking through the Claw Machine District, something caught my eye. In this machine that usually just has rocks in it, there was an actual teddy bear! Fortunately, I had with me my allowance, which I'd been saving for a whole year: one three-cent coin. I dropped it into a slot, then carefully maneuvered the claw toward the beckoning fuzzy grail! Odds were against me, but then it happened! The miracle! The claw grabbed the stuffed animal; it was mine! Then, like a knight of yore, I gallantly gave the prize to my beloved mother... who immediately turned around and gave it to my brother, Roger. I was crushed as I watched Roger produce a big red marker and write his name on the toy. And then afterwards proceed to do the same to my mother, claiming both as his own, effectively shutting me out of the family dynamic.
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: So now, with my giant claw, I will wreak vengeance on my brother, and take away his giant opera house! (Evil laugh) So, what's new with you?

(Cut to a palace where Candace is sitting on a throne. Guiserblint comes forward with a bucket of gold coins, with some coins scattered on a rug in front of Candace.)
Guiserblint: And where would you like your bucket of gold?
Candace: Yeah, just put it there at the end. (Guiserblint pours some more gold at the end of the rug. Candace takes off her shoes.) Okay, you can go now. (She lifts her dress up and runs gleefully through the coins in her bare feet. She stops and a record needle scratch is heard.) Wow, I've been given all this power and how I've chosen to use it is to run through gold coins barefoot....I'm a genius!! (runs back to the throne) Ha ha ha!
(Cut back to the backyard where the Princess is kneeling at two pieces of wood and a nail and is wearing a hard hat)
Princess Baldegunde: Okay, now I hammer. (clap clap) Hammer? (clap clap) Hammer?
Baljeet: Your legs do not appear to be broken.
Princess Baldegunde: You are right! Broken, they are not! I can be fetching hammer for myself, can I not? (runs off) Here I go! Never so much fun have I had!
Phineas: Wow! Candace really seems to be enjoying herself today.
Ferb: And she seems to have acquired an upper-class Drusselsteinian speech pattern.
Phineas: Yeah. Let's just go with it.

(Cut back to the blimp)
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Going to the Opera House, WOOT! WOOT! ♪ C'mon, Perry, sing along! (Perry buries himself among the stuffed animals) W-W-Wait. What are you doing? (Perry sticks his arm out of the prize slot and pulls a lever) Whoa! (The blimp tips over along with the claw machine, and Perry escapes.) Got to reach controls...WOOT! WOOT! (He grabs the lever and tips the blimp back upright) See? Everything works with the woots. (Perry jumps onto the joystick and grabs it) Hey! Hey, le-leggo of that! WOOT! WOOT! See, I'm tellin' ya.

(Cut back to the backyard, where a humongous jukebox now stands.)
Phineas: And the giant jukebox is done! Now all we need to do is fill it with music.
(Love Händel walks by, followed by Jeremy and the Incidentals.)
Princess Baldegunde: Hello, cute blonde boy with guitar.
Jeremy: Hey...cute redhead...talking funny. See ya after the set.
(Cut back to Candace on the throne, where she is just sitting.)
(Song: Watchin' and Waitin' (instrumental))
Guiserblint: Her Majesty would like to run through gold with no shoes?
Candace: Nah, been there, done that. (Guiserblint leaves) Wow. Absolute power bores absolutely. (Her phone rings, she picks up) Hello?
(Cut to the Princess holding up the Jeremy and the Incidentals logo.)
Princess Baldegunde: Candace? I need to ask you question. How is pronounce the name of cute blond boy with guitar?
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: (suspiciously) What cute blond boy?
(Cut back to the Princess.)
Princess Baldegunde: The one with band! Is it "Jer-EH-mee" or "Jer-ME"?
(Cut back to Candace)
Candace: It's pronounced, "Stay away from him!" (The Princess hangs up and Candace gets a dial tone) Hello? Hello? Okay, that tears it! (Takes off the Princess' dress revealing her regular wardrobe underneath) That's enough princess for today! I want my life back! (runs off)
Guiserblint: (chasing after her) Your Majesty! City Hall Opera Gala is about to begin!
(Cut to the backyard. Candace runs through the fence door and approaches her doppelgänger.)
Candace: Stay away from Jeremy! Is this a giant jukebox? Have you told Mom yet?
Princess Baldegunde: I should be telling of the Mother?
Candace: Wait, stay right here! I'll be right back!
Guiserblint: Your Highness! Your Highness! (gasps) Ceremony is about to start! (takes the Princess' hand) We go now!

(Cut back to the blimp where Doofenshmirtz and Perry are still fighting over the joystick)
Doofenshmirtz: You're messing up my trajectory! (Perry grabs the joystick, which drops the Giant Claw-inator and grabs hold of the jukebox)
Candace: (approaching her mother) Mom! Mom! Giant jukebox! Come on! Come on! (Candace runs outside to see the blimp take the jukebox. Linda follows.) You missed it. Giant jukebox, doppelgänger, everything, all gone.
Linda: Cool.
(Cut to the Opera House where there is a huge gathering outside.)
Guiserblint: To celebrate ze linking of the two cultures and ze lifetime achievements of Roger Doofenshmirtz, vill you please join me in velcoming Princess Baldegunde of Drusselstein!
(The crowd cheers as the Princess, back in her royal regalia, takes the stage.)
Princess Baldegunde: Like Roger Doofenshmirtz, I grew up in a very different country.
(They suddenly look at the blimp carrying the giant jukebox.)
Doofenshmirtz: (once again fighting over the joystick) Perry the Platypus, stop it! I have to put down this jukebox so I can pick up the Opera House!
(The Giant Claw-inator, drops the jukebox onto the top of the Opera House.)
Doofenshmirtz: I did it! I...Not strictly according to plan, but I...Still, I have disrupted the ceremony. WOOT! WOOT! See? Everything works with the woot-woots.
Princess Baldegunde: It is a jukebox! It is our jukebox! Oh, this is most wonderful! Citizens of Danville, I had been come here today to give you long boring speech, but no longer. Instead, I give to you... (she runs up to the top of the roof with a quarter in her hand, which she shows) twenty-five American cents! (She puts the quarter in the jukebox and pushes Jeremy and the Incidentals.) Time for everybody to make play as happy dancing persons! Here is Cute Blonde Boy with Guitar!
Jeremy: Here we go!
(Song: Do Nothing Day)
Jeremy: ♪ Beautiful, kind and gentle ♪
♪ And loving and softness and sweetness and candy and gum ♪...
(Whip pan to another part of Danville)
Man: A giant jukebox! They built it! Let's bring the party to them!
(Whip pan back to the Opera House.)
Jeremy: ♪ ...and bunnies ♪
♪ And happy songs we can all hum ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Oh! Oh, no! Everyone is enjoying themselves! Even Roger! Oh, my plan has failed! Curse you, Perry the Platypus!
Jeremy: ♪ Slow down ♪
♪ And look around you ♪
(Cut to the backyard. Agent P parachutes down and goes back to pet mode.)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry! I'm glad you weren't in the jukebox, wherever that went.
(Perry chatters)



(Scene opens up in the Flynn-Fletcher home.)
Linda: Well, I think that's it. You have both our cell-phone numbers, all emergency contacts, and the number of the hotel we'll be staying in at the antique shower-head convention. What do you plan on doing tonight?
Candace: I thought I'd have a few friends over, like Stacy and Jenny. Is that okay?
Linda: Sure! But no wild parties.
Candace: Well, I guess I'll have to cancel the death metal band and the fire dancers. (Linda frowns) I kid!
Linda: Lawrence, you're not wearing that on the plane.
Lawrence: (wearing antique showerhead) I'm not on the plane yet.
Linda: We'll be back this time tomorrow.
Phineas: Mom and Dad, your cab is here.
Linda: (To Candace) Bye hon! You're in charge.
Lawrence: Mind your sister, boys.
All: Bye!
Candace: Hey, Stace. What're you doing tonight? Do you and Jenny want to come over and just hang out?
Phineas: Do you need help with entertaining or snacks?
Candace: Listen, under no circumstances do I want you to do anything crazy. Or anything at all for that matter. Just go up to your room and get out of my hair. Vamoose.
Phineas: Are you sure? We can make a nacho launcher, or a dip fountain.
Candace: No.
Phineas: How about a wasabi slide?
Candace: No. (To Stacy) Sorry about that, Stace. Come over around... Oh wait, I have another call. Hello?
Phineas: (from the phone) How about a mustard-go-round?
Candace: Phineas!
Phineas: Okay. Hey, where's Perry?
(Perry puts on his fedora and opens a drawer where he slides through a tube)
Major Monogram: Come in, Agent P. We've been having trouble with our pipes getting mixed up with the city's dump system. We aren't one hundred percent sure where you'll end up.
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus?!
Major Monogram: Where are you, Agent P? (Perry points his wrist communicator at Doofenshmirtz) Great googly moogly! Well, hang tight, I'll give you your mission. Doofenshmirtz is up to no good. He has been seen snooping around-
Doofenshmirtz: Around the neighborhood apartment. Yes, I've; yes, I've been doing that.
Major Monogram: He's also been buying-
Doofenshmirtz: Buying electrical equipment.
Major Monogram: And checking-
Both: -movie starting times online.
Major Monogram: Let me tell it!
Doofenshmirtz: I wanna tell it! I - want - to tell it! Doofenshmirtz... that is... wait... (he is cut off by Major Monogram; exclaims in frustration)
Major Monogram: La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la. (clears throat) So, get him, Agent P, and good luck.
Doofenshmirtz: Thank you.
Major Monogram: Not you.
Doofenshmirtz: Too late, I'm lucky now. (laughs; traps Perry) You like that? I call it a trap-a-lounger, because it's loungy and trappy all at the same time.
(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher house, where the door bell rings. Candace walks to the door and answers it. Enter Stacy and Jenny, squealing in excitement.)
Stacy: Yeah!
Jenny: Whoo-hoo!
Stacy: (she and Jenny walk in) I took the liberty of bringing some DVDs for our party viewing pleasure.
Candace: Uh, it's not a party.
Stacy: For our not-a-party viewing pleasure. (Enter Jenny's cousin, Sara)
Jenny: Candace, this is my cousin, Sara.
Sara: Hello.
Jenny: She's visiting for the weekend. Is it okay if she hangs out with us, too?
Candace: Well, my mom said I could have a couple people over. Sure, come on in.
Sara: (Candace closes the door) Hey, are you Phineas and Ferb's sister? That must be awesome for you.
Candace: Yeah, you'd think so, wouldn't you?
Stacy: So my mom told me to clean up my room and I didn't have any shoes on, so I started picking stuff up with my feet, and I turned it into a game with myself, like, "Can I Clean Up My Whole Room With My Feet?" And I did. (her cell phone rings) Oh, it's Coltrane. Hello?
Coltrane: (indistinct chattering over phone)
Stacy: (To Candace) Coltrane and Jeremy's gig got cancelled. Can they come over?
Candace: Over here? Uh, Coltrane and Jeremy? Hey, what's two more?
Stacy: (to Coltrane) Bring it! (she hangs up) Awesome!
(Scene shifts to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: So, let me tell you my evil scheme. Not too long ago, I used to sit right over there and watch free movies on the drive-in movie screen across the street. Of course, I didn't get the sound, so I'd make up my own dialogue. It was fun. (changes his tone of voice to sound gruff and deeper) Sheila, I love you, but now I have to defuse this bomb. (in normal voice) See? Good stuff! Gripping! But now look! They built a giant condominium blocking my view. I tried to make up dialogue for it... (in gruff movie voice) I'm a condominium. I'm just standing there. (In normal voice) See? Where's the fun in that? It's always the same, "I'm a building." There's no story. And I know what you're thinking, why not just move my armchair over to that window over there with the unblocked view? Well, then I would have to move this little table, too, and the lamp, and this is the only electrical outlet. It seems easier to get rid of the building. So, that's why I invented this: the Go-Away-inator! One blast of this ray, and that building, and everyone in it, (snaps his fingers) will instantly be transported somewhere else. Here on this wheel, I've written many undesirable locations. With a pull of this string, a site is randomly chosen, and good-bye low-rent condo, hello Hollywood high-budgets! (laughs maniacally)
(Scene shifts back to the Flynn-Fletcher house, where Jeremy and the Incidentals have arrived.)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. Thanks for having us over to your party.
Candace: Oh, it's not a party, and I'm glad you and your entire band could make it over.
Jeremy: We wrote a new song. I'd love to test it out on you guys.
Stacy: Aww.
Jenny/Sara: Ooh.
Candace: Uh, as long as we agree that it's just a test. This isn't a "party" with a "band" playing, it's just a small get-together, and you're just gonna lightly strum a test song.
(Song: Breath)
(The song has dialogue under)
Jeremy: ♪ It's funny how words ♪
♪ Are never what's heard ♪
♪ 'Cause still I don't know what you're thinking ♪
♪ We park and we talk ♪
♪ We talk and we talk ♪
♪ And I get this feeling I'm sinking ♪
♪ Press play and record at the same time ♪
♪ And capture us both so uneasy ♪
♪ But all in good time ♪
♪ On eternity's dime ♪
♪ I'll lose this breath I've been holding ♪
♪ Cupid's in knots ♪
♪ All our nerves are shot ♪
♪ I'll lose this breath I've been holding ♪
(During the song, Stacy, Jenny, and Sara dance along. They cheer Jeremy and the Incidentals as they play. Candace snaps her fingers to the song nervously. Then, the door bell rings. Candace walks to the door and answers it. Enter three teenage girls.)
Girl #1: Hey, we were just walking by and heard the music. Isn't this Phineas and Ferb's house?
Candace: Well, yes, but...
Girl #1: Awesome!
Girl #3: Hey, Phineas and Ferb are having a party!
Candace: But, but, but, hold on... (chuckles nervously) It's just an intimate get together. (tries to close the door, but gets slammed in the face as more teens walk in)
Teens: Hey, Phineas and Ferb!/Hey, guys, a party!
Candace: It's not a party.
Girl: This is awesome! (more teens join in Jeremy and the Incidentals and dance along)
(Phineas and Ferb come down the stairs and wave at the party teens)
Phineas: Heeeeeey.
Ferb: When we get our own place, it'll be like this everyday.
Phineas: Let's find Candace.
(Sara turns up the volume on the amplifier and dances)
Candace: No, no! No, keep it down. Just going to turn it down a little. (chuckles nervously) ♪ La, la, la... ♪ (tries to unplug the amplifier, but Phineas and Ferb interrupt her)
Phineas: Hey, Candace. Cool party.
Candace: It's not a party, it's an intimate get-together.
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. Thanks so much for hosting this.
Candace: Oh, sure. Rock on... (Jeremy leaves) What are you looking at?! If you want to stay down here, sit over there and stay out of the way.
Phineas: (leaving) Okay.
(someone throws a bag of Pork Rinds)
Guy: Pork Rinds, coming your way!
Candace: Uh, snacks should not be airborne! (Snatches it from him but the bag tears and the chips fall to the ground)
(At D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Any minute now, Perry the Platypus, that building will be relocated and I can enjoy my view! It just needs to warm up. (turns on the Go-Away-inator) Let's savor this moment. Right now, my plan is working, you're trapped, and the inator is warming up. Yes, these are the good moments, Perry the Platypus. These are the good moments.
(Back at the Flynn-Fletcher house...)
Guy: Is this the Phineas and Ferb party?
Guy #2: Sure is.
Guy: I brought Pork Rinds.
Guy #2: More pork rinds!
Candace: I didn't invite these people. Who are they? Now what?
Party members: (Chanting) Chip! Chip! Chip! Chip! Chip!
Candace: What's going on here?
(Phineas and Ferb are eating potato chips)
Party members: Yeah!
Candace: Stop encouraging them!
Phineas: We're just eating potato chips at a party.
Guy: Phineas and Ferb parties rule! (all cheering)
Candace It's not their party, it's my party! And it's not a party, it's an intimate get together. (Shattering) (Gasps) What was that? Put that down, pardon me, use a napkin! What's my science teacher doing here?
Teacher: I never miss a Phineas and Ferb party!
(Song: Candace Party)
Candace: First of all, it's not a party, but if it were a party, it would not be their party, it would be MY PARTY!
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ It's not a party, it's an intimate get together! ♪
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ Don't call it that, it's just a get together! ♪
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ Don't spill your drink ♪
♪ Don't drop your food ♪
♪ Don't make the music in the house go boom ♪
♪ Hey, don't use my mom's good scissors ♪
♪ And please stay out of my room! ♪
♪ Take your feet off the chair ♪
♪ No running in the house ♪
♪ Put a coaster under that drink ♪
♪ Hey, these tchotchkes aren't for juggling ♪
♪ And that's a toilet, not a sink! ♪
Candace: ♪ It's not a party, it's an intimate get together ♪
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ Don't call it that, it's just a get together ♪
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
(the phone rings)
Phineas: Hi, Mom! What? WHAT?! I'm sorry, I can't hear you over Candace's intimate get together!
Jeremy: ♪ Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ Hey, what's this in this fishbowl? ♪
♪ I said don't play with the remote! ♪
♪ Hey close the door, were you born in a barn? ♪
♪ Which one of you brought this goat? ♪
Candace: ♪ It's not a party, it's an intimate get together! ♪
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ Don't call it that, it's just a get together! ♪
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ We're talking I to the N to the T-I-M-A-T-E get together! ♪
Party members: ♪ Whaaaat? ♪
Candace: ♪ I to the N to the T-I-M-A-T-E get together! ♪
Party members: ♪ That's right! ♪
Candace: It's not a party...
(Phineas and Ferb are leading a Conga line)
Phineas: (handing the phone to Candace) It's for you!
Candace: Wait a minute, where are you going?
Phineas: To the kitchen!
Party members: Candace party! Candace party!
Candace: Hello?
Linda: (from the phone) Candace?
Candace: Mom!
(Linda & Lawrence are at the airport)
Linda: Candace, is that you?
Party members: (from the phone) Candace party!
Jeremy: (from the phone) ♪ Candace party! ♪
Linda: I can barely hear you! What's all that noise?
Party members: Candace party! Candace party!
Linda: (from the phone) Candace, are you having a party?!
Candace: No, no, no, no, Mom.
Jeremy: ♪ Candace party! ♪
Candace: It's not a party, It's an intimate get together!
Party members: Candace party! Candace party!
Candace: (from the phone) SHUT UP!
Party members: (from the phone) Candace party! Candace party!
Linda: (turns off phone) Lawrence, there's something weird going on at home. I'm afraid we're gonna have to cancel our trip and head right back. (sighs)
Lawrence: Oh, would you like to yank my chain?
Linda: (at the camera) Yes, yes I would.
(Linda pulls the cord on Lawrence's shower-hat)
(At D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Any minute now, my inator will be all warmed up. I should've gone solid state, but this has got the tubes. It's old school Perry the... Hey, you've escaped! (grunts)
(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: Everybody out the back way! Let's go! Out, out, out!
Jeremy: Great idea, moving the party outside. It was getting hot in there. Hey guys, let's keep rocking!
Party members: Candace party! Candace party!
Candace: No! Now they're all partying in the backyard!
Party members: Candace party! Candace party!
Candace: Why aren't they leaving?
(Linda and Lawrence arrive)
Party members: Candace party! Candace party!
Candace: (Gasps) They're here!
(At D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: It's too late, Perry the Platypus, I've pulled the string! Any second, these condos will disappear, and I will watch free movies. And you can't do a thing about it.
(Perry pulls the rug. The ray from the Go-away inator hits the party members, making them disappear)
Candace: (gasp) The entire party has disappeared! Of course! The same divine intervention that takes things away from you guys...took the party away for me! I'm saved!
Phineas: I wonder where the party went.
Ferb: Someplace nice, I hope.
(At D.E.I. The sides of Doofenshmirtz's pants appear to have all the party members in them)
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: Well, obviously, something's amiss. Uhh, let's review: The Go-away inator which missed the condo, should've zapped whatever it hit to an undesirable location. Let me check my undesirable location wheel. (grabs out binoculars) Stonehenge, Burbank... (looks where spinner stopped) My Pants?! Why would I even write that there? Oh, I see, I got it confused with my dry-cleaning wheel. Oh, okay, but...why do I have a dry-cleaning wheel? (in gruff movie voice) I am a dry-cleaning wheel. Why do I exist? (normal voice) Perry the Platypus, be a mensch and push the reverse button, would you?
(Perry presses the reverse button on the Go-Away inator. The ray hits the backyard as Linda and Lawrence enter)
Candace: Mom and Dad are here!
(The party members materialize behind Candace in the backyard. Linda and Lawrence march up to her)
Candace: Hello, Mother, Father. What are you doing back so soon? I hope everything's okay. (pause) There's a party behind me, isn't there?
Party members: Candace party! Candace party! Candace party!
Linda: Candace, I trusted you! I can't believe you threw a party!
Candace: I didn't throw a party!
Linda: Well, then, whose party is it?
Teenage boys: (open door) Candace party! Candace party!
Linda: Young lady, you are so busted! Tell your friends to go straight home, and then go straight up to your room!
Party members: Awwww!
Teenage boy 1: Oh, man! Hey, everybody, the Candace party is over.
Party members: Awwww!
(Candace sadly walks upstairs. Phineas and Ferb watch her)
Phineas: Candace, if it makes you feel any better, you accidentally threw the most outrageous party of the summer!
Candace: Thanks, guys. I'll see you in a week.
(Perry comes back)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry. You missed Candace's party.
Ferb: Totally, a platypus would have put it over the edge.
(Perry chatters)
(At D.E.I.)
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Vanessa! Thank goodness you're here! A platypus has tied me up in my own pants!
Vanessa: How did my life get to the point where that is not a strange sentence to me?
(pause)
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: (in gruff movie voice) I'm your daughter. I will stop being sarcastic and untie you.

End Credits
(Song: Candace Party)
Candace: ♪ Don't spill your drink ♪
♪ Don't drop your food ♪
♪ Don't make the music in the house go boom ♪
♪ Hey, don't use my mom's good scissors ♪
♪ And please stay out of my room ♪
♪ Take your feet off the chair ♪
♪ No running in the house ♪
♪ Put a coaster under that drink ♪
♪ Hey, these tchotchkes aren't for juggling ♪
♪ And that's a toilet, not a sink! ♪
Candace: ♪ It's not a party, it's an intimate get together ♪
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ Don't call it that, it's just a get together ♪
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
Jeremy: ♪ Candace party! ♪
Party members: ♪ That's right! ♪
Candace: It's not a party...



(Scene opens up on what appears to be the backyard; paper doll versions of Phineas and Ferb are shown.)
♪ Na, na, na ♪
Phineas: (offscreen) Hey, Ferb. What'cha wanna do today?
(The paper doll Phineas falls over.)
Phineas: (offscreen) Oops! (his hand comes in to pick it up.) It's way to nice out to be lying down. (Zoom out; they are in the living room, it is raining outside.) At least...in here, it is.
(Knock on the door)
Phineas: Come in!
(Isabella, Ginger, and Holly enters the front door of the house looking sad, while Isabella shakes the rain drops off of her umbrella)
Isabella: (Sad voice) Hey Phineas. What'cha doin'?
Phineas: Oh, what's the matter?
Isabella: (Sighs) We were going to go for our desert trekking patch today, but now it's raining.
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
(Cut to Candace standing by the front door.)
Candace: You see, I know Jeremy likes me, but I don't know why he likes me. And if I find out what it is that he likes about me, I can make sure I don't change that about myself. Because what if I stop doing whatever he likes? And then he stops liking me because I'm not doing it anymore?
Linda: Well, maybe he just likes hearing you talk.
Candace: Huh?
Linda: Hey, where's Perry?
(Outside, it is still raining. Perry puts on his fedora and runs to the tree. He pulls a rope, which activates the slide door to his lair and water comes splashing out, soaking him. He wrings out his wet fedora, puts it back on, and goes down the slide)
(At the headquarters)
Major Monogram: It's not like Agent P to miss...
(Perry slides off the HQ chair, lands on the screen, and falls flat on his face. Major Monogram and Carl laughs hysterically)
Carl, play that back!
Carl: Right away, sir! (Presses play on the remote control and Perry slides on the video)
Major Monogram: (Laughs)
Carl: (Presses the slow motion button and Perry is in slow motion) Look sir, it's even funnier this way!
Major Monogram: (Laughs) Stop it, stop it. My cheeks hurt.
(Perry, not finding it amusing, folds his arms)
Major Monogram: Oh uh... (Clears throat) Grow up, Carl!
(Carl leaves the screen)
Major Monogram: Anyhow, as you probably noticed there's been an unusual amount of rain in the Tri-State Area. Call us crazy, but we're thinking Doofenshmirtz! Investigate, and stop him at all costs. Well, maybe at a reasonable cost. We, I mean, we don't want to blow the whole budget on this one scheme, do we?
(Perry goes to his hover car and zooms away)
Carl: Run it again, sir?
Major Monogram: I'll get the popcorn!
(In the backyard, Phineas and Ferb have just finished building the bio-dome.)
Isabella: Wow, that was fast!
Phineas: Well, nobody likes working in the rain. Let's get dry, ladies! (As Phineas, Ferb, and the Fireside Girls enter the bio-dome) This biosphere can simulate almost any environment. (Ferb pulls a lever, sand begins pouring out of the ceiling, a fake sun shines and the tiles on the inside of the biosphere turn sky blue.) Can we cook or can't we?
Isabella: You guys are the greatest! Okay, according to the Fireside Girl handbook, we can find water in cacti.
(The camera pans to a cactus. Isabella pulls a zipper, and the cactus is revealed to have just been fabric covering a water cooler.)
Now, don't make it too easy!
(In the house, Candace lets Jeremy in the front door)
Jeremy: Hi, Candace. What do you say to a little picnic? You know, indoors.
Candace: Neat!
Jeremy: We can't let a little rain put a damper on our-- wow! (Sees the biosphere, and Candace panics) I guess your brothers have been busy, huh? Oh, we should have our picnic in there!
Candace: Um, um... Excuse me! (Walks away from Jeremy to resolve her inner turmoil) Urge to bust so strong, but I need time with Jeremy to find out why he likes me! Gotta resist urge to bust! Must not spoil quality time with boyfriend! (Composes herself and returns to his side) Uh, picnic in the dangerous, unauthorized, and highly bust-worthy biosphere? Sounds great! (Giggles insincerely)
(Back with the desert trekkers, they're making progress on the patch.)
Isabella: So, we've gotten water from a cactus, witnessed a mirage, and learned the difference between sunstroke and heatstroke. Thanks for that, Adyson.
(Adyson, who looks slightly delirious, is being dragged by Katie and Ginger.)
Adyson: Hey... the salamanders quit singing... (Giggles)
Isabella: Now we just need to either collect a sand sample, measure the temperature, or milk a camel.
(A camel suddenly pops up out of the ground.)
Isabella: You guys!
(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, Perry flies his platypus air car to Doofenshmirtz's window. He leaps in, slips on a chair, and goes flying as Doofenshmirtz cackles. He lands in a hole in the floor right next to Doofenshmirtz, which is apparently his trap)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, I set up this whole thing with lasers and flypaper, falling cages, spinning platforms, on the way to a trapdoor... (The camera pans across this devious contraption) And you just come and slip on a chair, and waste a day's worth of work. Eh. (As Perry emerges from the hole in the ground in a green glass tube) But it's gonna look great on the Christmas party gag reel, hehehe! Of course, it'll just be me at the party, uh...yeah. (Sighs) I need a laugh at the holidays. Anyway, gotcha! Go ahead, try to climb out of it.
(Perry does, and simply slips on the glass.)
Doofenshmirtz: (Laughs) It's greased! So, now that you're all comfy cozy I can introduce you to my Rain-inator! I've been using it to pour millions of gallons of water into these clouds, causing it to rain all over the Tri-State Area! I can't believe nobody's noticed it. It's kind of obvious.
(In the biosphere, the Fireside Girls have reached the opposite side)
Isabella: Yay! We made it across the desert! Say, Phineas, I don't suppose you could help us out with our Rainforest Navigation Patch?
Phineas: No problem, ladies. Ferb?
(Ferb pulls a switch out of the wall. He flips it.)
(Somewhere else in the biosphere, Jeremy and Candace are having their picnic.)
Jeremy: Well, this sure beats all that rain. Not too hot, are you?
(Candace, who has been laboriously fanning herself, immediately stops)
Candace: No, no, not at all! I mean, isn't that what you said you liked about me? That I don't "overheat"?
Jeremy: Heh, no. The thing I really like about you is...
(There is a sudden crash. Candace yelps. Apparently, Ferb has just flipped the switch to turn the desert into a rainforest, for trees shoot up out of the ground. A pipe shoots water out, beginning to create a river)
Jeremy: Wow, this is incredible!
Candace: Um, uh, what was that you were saying?
Jeremy: I said, This is incredible!
Candace: No, before that.
Jeremy: I said...wow!
(Candace groans and starts to walk away)
Candace: (In a shallow state of calm) Pardon.
Jeremy: Sure. Hmm...
(The Fireside Girls are looking at bugs on the ground. The river starts flowing right at them, and they all run for cover, excepting Adyson)
Adyson: Hey! I think I found a new species of -
(She is caught up in the current. Isabella, Phineas, and Ferb ride after her on a log, Isabella holding a lasso.)
Isabella: Here, Adyson! Catch this! (Throws the lasso) Swift Water Rescue Patch! Bonus!
(Back with the young lovers, Jeremy is testing out the large umbrella they had been sitting under as a boat)
Jeremy: Candace!
Candace: Yes?
Jeremy: Check it out. This umbrella makes a sweet raft. Wanna float down the river with me?
Candace: (still fighting between her two halves) Busting. Boyfriend. Busting. Boyfriend. Busting? Boyfriend! (Giggles) Coming!!!
(Doofenshmirtz is telling Perry his evil scheme for the day...)
Doofenshmirtz: So, I bet you're wondering why did I cause all this rain. You see, while perusing local garage sales, I came upon a big screen TV from 1985. (Removes the tarp covering it) But when I went to turn it on, it was stuck on the Spanish channel!
(Perry yawns and closes his eyes, clearly bored by Doofenshmirtz's explanation.)
Doofenshmirtz: All it played was crazy variety shows and Mexican soap operas. (Turns on the TV) I really got hooked on one of them, though: El Matador de Amor. (Sets up his armchair to watch the soap opera.) It has three simultaneous story lines that interconnect... Genius! Anyway, the last episode was a cliffhanger...
(Perry notices that Doofenshmirtz's drain pipe can fill his green glass tube with water, therefore letting him escape.)
Doofenshmirtz: ...in which Esmerelda is going to find out why Juan loves her. At least, I think that's what's going to happen... But the show got preempted by a soccer game! Oh, I hate soccer! It makes no sense whatsoever! The clock runs up instead of counting down, what is that?! (Removes popcorn from the microwave and sits down in his armchair.) So with the help of my Rain-inator I rained the game out.
(Camera pans to a soccer stadium full of screaming fans. It begins to rain and the fans boo.)
Doofenshmirtz: And now, back to our regularly scheduled programming.
(He turns on the TV, which is playing a commercial for an "esponja milagroso", or "miracle sponge".)
Spanish Man on TV: ¡La Esponja Milagroso! Absorbes... (continues under)
Doofenshmirtz: In 10 minutes, the show is gonna start, and with you trapped and the Rain-inator at work, nothing will interrupt me!
(Perry takes this opportunity to start moving the tube over towards Doofenshmirtz's drain pipe)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, less pounding back there, okay? You're lucky I sprang for the clear tube, this way, you can watch too!
(In the biosphere, Candace and Jeremy are floating down the river in their umbrella boat.)
Jeremy: I mean, it's like your hair was genetically engineered to ensnare those giant fruit bats.
Candace: And you like that about me?
Jeremy: It's certainly interesting, but...it's not what I like about you.
Candace: What then?
Jeremy: Well, let me put it in a song.
(Song: "Set the Record Straight")
Jeremy: ♪ All throughout history men fall in love with women ♪
♪ You want to know why, well, let's start from the beginning ♪
♪ I've come to set the record straight (X2) ♪
♪ From scientific propagation of the species ♪
♪ To poets and philosophers, your Baudelaires and Nietzsches ♪
♪ I've come to set the record straight (X2) ♪

♪ But if you're asking for specifics ♪
♪ Well this isn't hieroglyphics ♪
♪ If you want to know sincerely ♪
♪ Listen up, I'll tell you clearly ♪
♪ What I like about you is... ♪
Candace: So, you were saying?
Jeremy: Oh, yeah.
♪ I've come to set the record straight ♪
♪ I see you still don't get it ♪
♪ But you really shouldn't sweat it ♪
♪ I'll say one more time with feeling ♪
♪ Here's the reason you're appealing ♪
♪ What I like about you is... (X3) ♪
Jeremy: Hey, guys! Uh-oh, here comes the fun part!
(They fly off the edge of a huge waterfall)
Candace: Fun part?! Seriously?!
(The Fireside Girls have just finished another patch. Isabella sticks a flag in the ground)
Isabella: Jungle Navigation Patch: complete! Anybody up for a little rock-climbing?
(Camera pans to Ferb, who is standing next to a crank labeled "Mountain". He turns it and a mountain springs up out of the ground)
Phineas: Behold Mount Ferbius!
(A falling rock hits Adyson in the head)
Ferb: Sorry, Adyson.
Adyson: The salamanders are back...
Isabella: Who wants a Concussion First Aid Patch?
(Candace, Jeremy, and the umbrella land on a snowy part of the mountain)
Candace: Incoming!!!
Jeremy: (As he moves his arms and legs back and forth) Ha, hey, look, Candace, I'm making snow angels.
Candace: (Grumpily) I'm wet and I'm freezing cold.
Jeremy: Ah, it's not so bad. I mean, we're together, aren't we?
Candace: Well, yeah...
(As the Fireside Girls climb the mountain, Adyson kicks a boulder, inadvertently sending it towards Candace and Jeremy)
Jeremy: And being together like this makes me realize what I like about you.
Candace: (Excitedly) What? What???
(The boulder whistles as it falls, and Candace and Jeremy notice it)
Jeremy: What's that sound?
(The boulder lands about ten feet away from them)
Candace: That could've squished us! That's it! I am gonna bust them!
Jeremy: (As Candace stomps away angrily) Wait, Candace, look! It's just papier-mâché! (Lifts the boulder easily)
(The Fireside Girls reach the top of the mountain, and triumphantly stand together)
Isabella: Good job, everyone. I think we've earned our Rock Climbing Patches.
Phineas: (In a hang-glider) Congratulations, ladies. How do you feel about Non-Powered Flight Patches?
(They all fly off the top of the mountain as Candace reaches it. She threatens them from the edge of the cliff)
Candace: Hey, come back here! I'm gonna bust you two if it's the last thing I--
(The cliff crumbles from her body weight, and she falls. She is barely hanging on to a tiny little crevice in the rock and hyperventilating)
(Back with the soap opera...)
Spanish Man on TV: El Matador de Amor.
Doofenshmirtz: (As sappy guitar music plays in the background) It's starting! It's starting!!! Okay, now, Perry the Platypus, shhh.
(Camera pans to Perry, who has nearly filled his tube trap with water) 
I don't want to miss anything.
Esmerelda: Oh, Juan...
Juan: Por lo Tanto su manada gemela, ha sido en Venenado...
(Doofenshmirtz munches on popcorn as he watches the show)

(Candace is still barely hanging on to the remaining part of the cliff)
Candace: (Screams) Help me!
Jeremy: Hold on, Candace, I'll save you!
(Jeremy jumps off the cliff, using the giant umbrella as a parachute. He grabs her just as she is about to fall)
I gotcha, Candace!
(They float down to the bottom and out of the biosphere, onto the front lawn)
Jeremy: Oh, man, I love this umbrella!
(Linda drives past them, presumably coming home from the grocery store)
Linda: Hey, kids!
Jeremy: You know, Candace, what I was trying to say back there is that...well, the thing I like about you is...
Candace: Wait! Hold that thought! I'll be right back. (She runs over to Linda in her usual fashion.) Mom! Mom! Backyard! Now! Biosphere!
(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc., Perry has finally managed to escape the tube at the climax of the season finale.)
Doofenshmirtz: (from inside) He's getting closer...he's looking into her eyes!
(Perry attaches a grappling hook to a passing airplane.) 
He's opening his mouth!
(Perry ties the other end to the Rain-inator)
He's forming his lips to start to articulate the syllables! Tell her, Juan! Tell her why you love her!!!
Juan: Es! La razón porque te amo (Repeat) La razón porque te amos es... es...
(The airplane pulls the Rain-inator away, clearing the sky of the rain. The soccer fans cheer in the stadium.)
Es!
(The programming switches to the soccer game, right before a goal is to be scored.)
Sport Announcer:  ¡Ahi Van la Pelota!
Doofenshmirtz: What?! No!!!!!
(At the now-sunny Flynn-Fletcher residence, Candace goes to the backyard, back turned.)
Candace: It's right here, Mom! Come on, come on, come on!
(The biosphere is picked up by the head of the Rain-inator behind her.)
Phineas/Fireside Girls: Hi, Candace!
Linda: (enters) Hmm, I've really got to fix the latch on that gate. (Both turn around and see the empty backyard.) Um...
(Candace facepalms.)
(Doofenshmirtz is mourning the loss of his soap opera)
Doofenshmirtz: How is this possible? I took every precaution! I had the Rain-inator, I had you trapped in a - what the?
(Perry, standing next to the gushing remains of the Rain-inator, salutes and hops into his hovercraft)
Doofenshmirtz: ¡Maldito seas, Perry el Ornitorrinco! Man, this is gonna cost me a fortune on my water bill.
(In the backyard, Linda turns to Candace.)
Linda: So, did you ever find out why Jeremy likes you?
Candace: Jeremy! (She bolts over to him.) Now, please continue your thought. Tell me why you like me.
Jeremy: You bet. The reason that I like you is...
(Candace grins excitedly. Jeremy opens his mouth to speak, but he, like Juan from the soap opera, is cut off by a soccer game.)
Sport Announcer: ¡Viene, le pega! ¡GOOOOOOOL!



(Scene opens with a view of the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Candace: Oh, Stacy, isn't Jeremy's hair the perfect shade of gold?
Recording: Uh huh.
Candace: And isn't it cute when he gets that little wrinkle on the end of his nose?
Recording: Uh huh.
Candace: And you know when...
Recording: Uh huh.
Candace: Stacy! Did you make a digital sound file of yourself saying "Uh huh" to fool me into thinking you're listening to me again?
Recording: Uh huh.
Candace: (Enraged) Stacy, pick up!
Stacy: (Picks up the phone) Well, do you blame me? (Imitating Candace) Oh, Jeremy and I went to the movies, Jeremy's house smells like gingerbread, ever notice Jeremy's mole is shaped like an adorable puppy? I'm starting to feel like the only reason you hang out with me is to talk about Jeremy!
Candace: Stacy, I--
Stacy: I miss you, Candace! I miss when we would spend time together, just the two of us. And I bet you didn't remember that today is the Danville Steet Fair.
Candace: Stacy, I'm so sorry. I'm gonna cancel with Jeremy today. Meet me at the cafe in a half an hour and we'll hit the Street Fair afterwards. It'll be just the two of us. I promise.
Stacy: Really? Great! But no—Jeremy -- anything. Okay? If I even hear his name--
Candace: I promise I won't break this promise. See ya in a bit! (hangs up) Now, to call Jeremy. Wait, why call him, when I can tell him I can't see him today...in person? (runs off to do so)
(Switches to Isabella)
Isabella: This is it, Isabella. The day you're going to insist on spending some time alone with Phineas! I can do this! (walks into backyard) What'cha doooin'?
Phineas: Hey, Isabella, we're building a giant robot dog.
Baljeet: Like when we made that title sequence!
Buford: Mmm, I'd rather give a monkey a shower.
Isabella: So, uh, Phineas, I was wondering if maybe after this, you'd like to go to the premiere of the new Stumbleberry Finkbat movie.
Phineas: (while rummaging through wires) Huh? Oh, sure. Sounds cool.
Ferb: (appears) I'd like to go to that.
Isabella: Uh, sorry, I -- I only have one extra ticket, and...it's sold out. So, I thought maybe Phineas and I would go—uh, not to necerrally exclude --
Phineas: Yeah, I can go after we finish up here. Done with he wiring, Ferb?(Ferb produces a back scratcher and scratches the dog, causing its hind leg to rise and twitch)
Phineas: Lookin' good. Hey, where's Perry?

(Switches to D.E.I., where Perry is already trapped by Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Comfortable, Perry the Platypus? I've made that platy-rack so that every limb is accounted for. So, what's it all about?
(Flashback)
You see, there were only 2 things that made my miserable childhood bearable: my giant pet cockroach, Hoarfrost and garlic ice cream. I love these two things so much I wondered if combining them would exponentially increase my enjoyment of them.
(Flashback ends)
So, introducing my Combine-inator! With my Combine-inator, I was finally able to make the Triple Scoop Garlic Roach Cone!
Hoarfrost: So cold...
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah.
Hoarfrost: Ow...
Doofenshmirtz: So anyway, I remembered this little island timeshare that I bought on a free trip to Vegas. And, I realized that if I were to combine my tiny island with the Capitol of the Tri-State Area like so, ta-da! Then, legally, under local property laws, I will be sovereign ruler of the Tri-State Area! As long as I file the appropriate paperwork and get it in by the end of business today...
(Perry turns the hairs on his head into the shape of a key and unlocks his trap, while Doofenshmirtz is still talking. Afterwards, the former punches the latter, sending the two offscreen)

(Switches to Jeremy's house)
Candace: (rings doorbell)
Mrs. Johnson: (answers door) Oh, hello, Candace.
Candace: Hey, Mrs. Johnson. Is Jeremy in?
Mrs. Johnson: Come on in. He's right over there.
(Pan over to Jeremy sleeping on the couch holding a drumstick and milk jug)
Candace: Is he okay?
Mrs. Johnson: Oh, sure. He was just up all night working the graveyard shift at Mr. Slushy Burger after a full day shift. Then when he came home...
Jeremy: (snoring)
He ate an entire turkey, drank a gallon of warm milk and just passed out on the sofa. Bless him. I'd be surprised if he woke up before next Thursday. Good luck getting any conversation out of him, sweetie.
Candace: Thanks. Aw, look how cute he is when he's sleeping. (sits next to Jeremy) Psst, Jeremy?
(Switches back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Alright, you've asked for it! (grabs Perry and they roll on the ground, knocking over the Combine-inator. The contraption fires off a ray that reaches a nearby park)
Man: I hereby dedicate this giant prism--
(the ray hits the prism, causing the former to redirect into two directions: one straight up into space and hitting a satellite and the other straight in the direction of Jeremy's house)
Candace: ...so Stacy and I just need a little girl time, and that's a--
(the ray hits Candace and Jeremy, causing the two to be fused together at the waist)
Okay, that was weird... So, you'll have to take a raincheck, OK?
(attempts to get up, but fails, due to Jeremy's weight keeping her from doing so)
(screams) We're attached! Stacy's gonna kill me! (gets up and falls on the ground) Phineas and Ferb...
(Switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard. Isabella is getting impatient)
Phineas: Tail wag solenoids, check. Slipper chewing radio controlled by cuspids, check.
Isabella: (sighs) Hey, Phineas? What'cha still doooin'?
Phineas: Just going through a last minute checklist, now that the dog is done.
Isabella: Oh! Does that mean we can, uh, go to the movies?
Phineas: Hey Ferb! Let's fire this puppy up!
(Ferb turns the dog on)
Phineas: (to Isabella) I don't see why not.
Isabella: Great, we can still catch the matinee!
Candace: Phineas! (enters backyard) What have you done?!
Phineas: Well, we've made this giant robotic--
Candace: Just look at us! We are all fused together! (close up of her) See?! I don't care what kind of freaky project you guys are doing! Just get us unstuck!
Baljeet: We could remove you to a sterile environment and get a board certified surgeon to cleanly, and safely preform a gerabotamy.
Buford: We could tie each of you to a monster truck, and drive in opposite directions, worst case scenario, someone loses a torso.
Phineas: Or, we can use the molecular separator.
Candace: That thing you used to separate me from me?
Phineas: Yeah! It worked before. You know, in a completely different set of circumstances.
Candace: Great you guys get on it. (Her phone rings) H-Hey Stacy.
Stacy: Hey BFF, just checking on your ETA.
Candace: About that-
Stacy: Oh no! You had better not be ditching me to hang out with Jeremy again!
Candace: What? On Street Fair day? Haha! No way, sister! I'll be there, and I'll be there early. Ah-haha. Yeah. Alone. Okay? Okay. (She hangs up) Oh crud. Make that molecular whatever and meet me at the coffee shop!
Isabella: Yeah, but the movie almost started --
Candace: (overlapping, leaves) And don't be late! THIS IS YOUR FAULT!
Phineas: I don't know what she's talking about Ferb, but I do know the next thing we're gonna do today! Let's get started on the separator.
(Isabella frowns)
Doofenshmirtz: (Doofenshmirtz and Perry circle each other) So here we are, just the two of us at a stalemate. Each looking for something to turn the tide, but what will it be?
Norm: (He walks in carrying a large tray of cupcakes) Cupcakes?
Doofenshmirtz: Oop! Watch this! (He leaps on to the -inator, activating it, then jumps into Norm's arms) Prepare to face the wrath of Normenshmirtz! (Normenshmirtz fires laser at Perry) You can't get away from me now!
Norm:Don't you mean us?
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, don't step on my moment.
Candace: Phineas and Ferb better find a fix for this—Oh!! (Candace sees Stacy, and to hide Jeremy, she pulls up a chair, and throws a tablecloth over him)
Stacy: Hey girlfriend!
Candace: Oh hey Stace!
Stacy: (To the waiter) Two ice teas please. So, Candace, sorry I was so hard on you before. I know you and Jeremy aren't together all the time.
Candace: No, really it's okay. It's nice to have a little space from him. Oh look our drinks.
Waiter: Two ice teas.
Candace and Stacy: Thanks.
(Jeremy snores)
Candace: (She covers up Jeremy's lips to stop him from snoring) So, I here there's a ton of vintage clothing stalls at the street fair this year.
Stacy: Yeah, I'm looking for some really cool... Wow, this table's really lumpy.
Candace: Yeah, lumpy tables. It's the new "hip" thing. It's so European.
Jeremy: (moaning) Uhhhh...
Candace: (desperately) Uhhh... ♪ Do the Moan, Moan! Yeah! Do the Moan! ♪ Come on, Stace, don't you love that song? ♪ Do the Moan! ♪
Candace: Hey isn't that that guy from that movie.
Stacy: What? Where? I don't see him! What guy?
Candace: (To Jeremy) ♪ Lullaby and goodnight da-da-da-da♪
Stacy: I don't see anyone.
Candace: That's because he's gone.
Stacy: Candace, why are you acting so nervous? I'm not mad anymore. I'm going to go pay for our drinks. (She leaves)
Candace: Okay. (Stacy returns, and Candace has on a big overcoat to hide Jeremy) Ready?
Stacy: Candace, why are you wearing that coat?
Candace: Brr, that ice tea gave me a chill.
Stacy: Okay, let's go, but you're walking behind me.
Candace: Okie-doke! (She pulls out her phone) Phineas will you hurry, we're heading to the street fair already.
(Normenshmirtz continues firing lasers at Perry, accidentally hitting the Combine-inator, fusing Perry with a nearby tool box.)
Doofenshmirtz: I think we're in trouble.
Norm: Sure, now it's "we".
Phineas: Ta-da! Representing the molecular separator! I can't believe how fast we rebuilt this Ferb. Of course breaking the immutable law of physics is always easier the second time around.
Isabella: Great! Does that mean we can go to the movies now?
Phineas: Sure does. The movie theatre is right next to the street fair. All we've got to do is get this to Candace, and separate her from Jeremy.
Isabella: Well what are we waiting for?
Ferb: I believe were waiting for Rover to put the molecular separator down.
Isabella: Hey!
(They chase after Rover)
Phineas: Come back here boy!
Buford: This would have never happened if we'd given a monkey a shower. I'm just sayin'.
Song: "Just the Two of Us"
♪ I'm so happy whenever ♪
♪ You and I are together ♪
♪ When it's just the two of us hanging around (around, around around) ♪
♪ Don't need a jazz trio or a string quartet (string quartet) ♪
♪ 'Cause you and I are the perfect duet (duet) ♪
vWhen we get together we make such a beautiful sound, yeah. ♪
♪ We don't need nobody else ♪
♪ 'Cause we can have fun all by ourselves ♪
♪ It's just the two, it's just the two of us today ♪
♪ It's just the two, it's just the two of us today ♪
♪ It's just the two, it's just the two of us ♪
♪ And I always want it to stay ♪
♪ Just the two of us ♪
(Perry unscrews one of norms arms)
Norm: Hey! That hurt!
Doofenshmirtz: Ahh! He's armed!
Norm: With my arm!
(Perry fires a couple of shot, then launches the arm at Normenshmirtz, who crashes into the Combine-inator, causing it to fire hitting perry, merging him with his former trap. Normenshmirtz tries to get up, but they end up breaking the hammer)
Norm: Balsa wood?
Doofenshmirtz: It was on sale. It's locked into overload.
(The -inator begins firing, merging Normenshmirtz with a refrigerator.)
Norm: (Opening the door to the refrigerator) Would you like a nice, frosty beverage?
Doofenshmirtz: Hey! (He closes the door) That's private!
(At the Street Fair)
Phineas: Split up guys. Maybe we can corner him.
Phineas and Isabella: (After cutting Rover off) A-ha!
(Rover turns around, and gets cut off by Buford and Baljeet)
Buford and Baljeet: A-ha!
Buford: He's coming your way!
Candace: I'm running out of hiding places. (She spies a dressing room, and hides Jeremy behind the curtain)
Stacy: Hey! I found all kinds of cute things! Move over, I'm going to try them on.
Candace: No! Uh... I can see they fit you perfectly.
Stacy: Candace! Are you karate-chopping me?! What's going on?
Phineas: Heal boy! (Rover stops) Go ferb! (Ferb runs up, and yanks a few wires out from Rover, causing him to shut down and drop the molecular seperator from his mouth)
Phineas: (Slow motion) No!
Candace: (Slow motion) No!
(Ferb blinks in slow motion)
Isabella and Buford: (Slow motion) No!
Baljeet: How is everyone doing that?!
(The molecular separator hits the ground, and sends out a field of separation)
Doofenshmirtz: (Now disconnected) Hey, I can feel my knees again!
(Norm crashes on top of him)
Norm: I'm sorry.
(The refrigerator crashes on them both)
Doofenshmirtz: So cold...
Candace: Okay, listen Stacy, there was this blast, and I was sitting next to Jeremy, and somehow we got--
Stacy: Jeremy. Jeremy. Jeremy. Tell me later I want to try this on.
(She opens the curtain)
Candace: Stacy, honest I really wanted to spend the day with you but... (She sees that there Jeremy isn't in the booth) But...? But? And we were? Uh... never mind.
Jeremy: Candace?
Candace: Jeremy!
Jeremy: I know this is a weird question, but do you have any idea how I got here.
Candace: Jeremy, don't worry, I promise I'll explain everything later, but right now you've gotta get out of here. (pushes him away) I'll call you later...I mean, tomorrow. Phew...
(Pause, then...)
Stacy: (peeks out from dressing room) By the way, the best part was when you used him as a table. (closes curtain) BUSTED!
Isabella: So, we, uh, got everything sorted out now.
Phineas: Yeah, want to catch that movie?
Isabella: Oh Phineas...
(The satellite discharges a Combine-inator beam)
Phineas: (To Ferb) Okay, bro, I guess I'll see you back at the house.
(The beam hits Phineas and Ferb, fusing them)
Isabella: Oh. My. Gosh.
Phineas: Hey! Does this mean we can all go now?
Ferb: Yes. Yes it does.

Credits roll
♪ We don't need nobody else ♪
♪ 'Cause we can have fun all by ourselves ♪
♪ It's just the two, it's just the two of us today ♪
♪ It's just the two, it's just the two of us today ♪
♪ It's just the two, it's just the two of us ♪
♪ And I always want it to stay ♪
♪ Just the two of us ♪



(Scene opens up with Phineas, Ferb and Candace watching the TV)
TV Announcer: Today, on the Uncovery Channel, we'll talk about the fastest land animal in the world. Possessed of incredible speed, the cheetah can outrun almost anything alive.
(Candace looks at her watch and motions as if to cue Phineas)
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! We're gonna build fast shoes, so we can run like a cheetah!
Candace: And I don't care. Because today, I'm going to Jeremy's family picnic in the park. I will be spending the whole day with my boyfriend and his extended family. And they are all going to love me, because today, I am Composed Candace. Confident, cool, and relaxed.
Linda: Candace...
Candace: AAAAAH! Stop judging me!!
Linda: Ready to head to the library?
Candace: Huh?
Linda: You volunteered to read to the kids' book club today, while I help reorganize cookbooks.
Candace: Oh, I forgot all about all about that! That's so unlike me! I never forget a promise! (Her cell phone rings. She picks up.) Hello?
(Cut to Stacy at a theater dressed as the front end of a pantomime horse with nobody in the back.)
Stacy: Candace! We're about to go on! (cut back to Candace) Where are you?! Candace? (Candace smiles nervously.) Candace?! Are you there?!
Candace: (hangs up) Heh-heh. Wrong number.
Linda: We're leaving in fifteen.
Candace: Heh. Yeah. I've got nothing better to do.
Phineas: What about that Jeremy thing?
Candace: (storming out angrily) Don't you have a catchphrase to say or something?
Phineas: What is she talking about? Hey, have you seen Perry around? (Ferb shrugs) 'Cause I haven't.
(Cut to Agent P's lair)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. It's come to our attention that Dr. Doofenshmirtz has missed a few of his mortgage payments. He must be funneling all that money into something really evil, otherwise, he'd ask his ex-wife for a loan. (File photo of Charlene appears on screen.) She's loaded you know. Ka-ching! So get over there (Perry salutes) and find out what's going on. (he leaves)
(Cut to a montage of Phineas and Ferb doing research)
Phineas: (voiceover) A cheetah's body is built to run at amazing speeds. By carefully analyzing our own bodies' running mechanics, we can now design and build our very own super shoes. Based on the pseudoscience of reflexology, these shoes will trigger pressure points in our feet, making us exponentially faster.
(Cut to Candace pacing nervously by the sliding door.)
Candace: I'm double-booked! If you count Stacy, I'm triple-booked! Oh, darn my endlessly giving nature! (Phineas speeds past the door.)
Phineas: Woohoo!
Candace: (opening the door) Wha?
Phineas: (speeding) Yeah! Hiiiiiii, Candaaaace! You know, Ferb, with these super shoes on, (running from one side to the other and back rapidly) we can almost be in two places at one time. (Ferb stops him) Let's go see what these babies can really do. (They speed out of the backyard.)
Candace: Two places at once?
(Car horn honks)
Linda: (offscreen) Candace, ready to head to the library?
Candace: Uh, that's okay, Mom, I think I'll walk.
Linda: (offscreen) Okay. See ya there.
Candace: (picks up a pair of shoes) Or maybe I'll run.
(Cut to D.E.I.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
(Cut to inside. Perry kicks Doof's door. A female real estate agent with a plate of cookies comes up to him.)
Female Realtor: Chocolate chip cookie? They're freshly baked. (Perry takes one.) Get your bids in soon. We don't expect this place to last long.
(Cut to reveal several people touring the place. A baby is crying.)
Woman: Ooh, are those floors original?
(Cut to Doof speaking to a male realtor.)
Doofenshmirtz: So just because I miss a few payments, you're selling my building? And where am I supposed to get that much money on such short notice?
Male Realtor: I'm sorry, Mr. Doofschmidt, those are the terms of your loan.
Doofenshmirtz: The name is Doofenshmirtz! Like, like in Doofenshmirtz! (Perry tugs his lab coat) Now what? Oh, it's you. I'm sorry, Perry the Platypus, I'm going to have to take a rain check. You see, I'm having a bit of a financial crisis and I'm afraid I won't have time for our evil scheme today. (Perry tips his hat and leaves.) Yep. (sighs) Next time we fight, it could be in a cardboard box, 'cause that's where I'll be living. (Perry stops short and tugs Doof's lab coat again) Can't you see I'm trying to wallow? (Perry points to something) What? (Cut to a framed picture of Doof's ex-wife) That? Oh, it's a nice picture of Charlene, isn't it? But I don't think I could get much cash for it. I mean, who wants a picture... (Perry takes out a phone) Oh, you mean call her and ask her for money? Never! Y'know what she'll say if I call? She'll say, "I told you so!" And you know why? Because she told me so! She said, "Don't get the gargoyles, Heinz!" But what does she know? (Whip pan to reveal two gargoyles on the balcony) Gargoyles are a good investment. Name a cheap building with gargoyles. (Cut back to Doof and Perry) No way am I asking her for money! I—I—I'll just, uh, make this place unsellable! Then they'll have to let me stay here no matter how broke I am! (to a potential buyer) Psst! Indian burial ground. True story.
(Cut to Phineas about to race against a dragster. The race begins. They reach the finish line with Phineas winning. The crowd goes wild. Cut to a notepad with the words "Drag Racer" and check boxes with "Yes" and "No" above them. A check is written under "Yes".)
Phineas: Wow! These things are great! Much better than those completely unstable prototypes we made earlier.
(Cut back to the backyard. Candace puts on one shoe with the word "Unstable" on its sole. She puts on the other with the word "Prototype" on its sole.)
Candace: What a ripoff! These things are—AAAAAAAAAAH!!! (She speeds away.)
(Cut to the library.)
Linda: Well, my daughter was supposed to... (Candace stops on the rocking chair) Oh! Kids, this is Candace. (to her daughter) Good luck. I'm off to file some cookbooks.
Candace: Alright, today's book is Smorky the Giant Rabbit's Family Picnic. (rocks back) Heh! I'm a little fidgety. Yes?
Sally: Why is your neck so long?
Candace: Good question. (Puts her in the rocking chair) You get to be today's first reader. I'll be right back. Go on, you'll do great. (speeds off)
Sally: Brab farbu gulla brobbidy Lingonberry.
(Candace speeds away)
Candace: There it is! Oh, please stop!
(She runs into a tent pole where Jeremy is getting some lemonade. She gets under a table and pops out of it.)
Jeremy: Whoa! Heh-heh! Hey, Candace, you came out of nowhere.
Candace: Yeah! (waves her arms trying to stay put) Uh, (grabs hold of her legs as she sits on the table) I did!
Jeremy: Well, I'm glad you could make it.
Candace: (kicks away Jeremy's cup) Me, too.
(An inexplicable cat screech is heard.)
Jeremy: Uh. Yeah. (screen flips to Jeremy showing her around the picnic) Why don't I introduce you around? You know my folks.
Mrs. Johnson: Hey, there, darlin'!
Mr. Johnson: Nice to see ya!
Jeremy: And, of course, you know Suzy.
Suzy: Candace.
Jeremy: And I bet you remember the birthday girl.
Candace: Of course. Grandma Hilda, from the—
Hilda: I never liked you.
Mrs. Johnson: Hey, guys, those potato sacks aren't gonna race themselves! Let's get the lead out, kiddies!
Candace: My gosh! The kids! (to Jeremy) I'm gonna get you a lemonade refill. I'll catch up with you in a bit, okay?
Jeremy: Okay, but hurry. The games are the best part of the picnic.
(She speeds away taking some lemonade with her.)
Candace: It's working!
(Cut back to Sally who is still reading in gibberish.)
Sally: Falooby blib dingo traloopoo-bul.
(Candace races back to her chair.)
Candace: Good.
Linda: Everything okay, Candace? Y'know, you really shouldn't have drinks in the library.
Candace: Yeah. It's all this reading. It makes my throat dry.
Linda: Oh, that's sweet. I think I'll watch for a while.
Candace: Oh, you don't have to. (Linda takes a seat. Candace clears her throat and begins reading.) "Smorky knew that it was wrong to steal the pie, but it looked so delicious. He knew his friend had worked hard to make the pie and bake the pie. How would Smorky's friend feel when he saw the pie was gone? He would feel sad. He would feel bad. He might even feel mad. But Smorky was so hungry. What could Smorky do? What should Smorky do? What would Smorky do?"
Sally: I have to go to the bathroom.
Candace: Yes! Mom, take her! (She pushes her mother and Sally into the restroom and speeds out.)
(Cut back to D.E.I)
Woman: I think this may be the place we've been looking for! I mean, high ceilings, open floor plan, purple and green? We won't even have to repaint!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, I-I-I am not calling Charlene!
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb.)
Phineas: (on a bullhorn) Go!
(Phineas and Ferb speed down the trail and stop.)
Phineas' Voice: Go! (kaboom!)
Phineas: Sonic boom! Check sound off the list.
(Ferb places a check mark under "yes" for "Sound". Candace is heard screaming and seen racing by. Phineas simply shrugs. Cut to a shrine with some dolls and a pink cloth that says Annabelle on it. Candace crashes into it.)
Boy: She knocked over the Annabelle shrine.
Woman: How rude!
Jeremy: Candace! (picks her up)
Candace: Who's Annabelle?
Jeremy: She sort of wandered off about 20 years ago. We don't really talk about it much.
Woman 2: (sobbing) Annabelle!
(Cut to Candace and Jeremy about to start a wheelbarrow race. Candace is holding Jeremy's legs.)
Mrs. Johnson: (offscreen) Wheelbarrows at the ready!
Candace: Are you sure you wouldn't rather be the legs?
Jeremy: You'd be surprised how strong my arms are. Don't hold back.
Candace:  I don't think I can.
(The gun goes off and Candace and Jeremy speed right down to the finish line into the mud.)
Jeremy: Hey, we won.
Mrs. Johnson: You might want to visit the washroom, honey. You've got a little something right (gestures all over their bodies) there.
Candace: The washroom! (speeds out and returns to her chair in the library)
Sally: And that's where it goes when you flush.
Linda: What an active imagination you have, sweetie! Well, I think I'll leave these adorable little ragamuffins in your capable hands, Candace. I'm afraid I have to be elsewhere.
Candace: Me, too.
(She speeds through a tunnel and past a dog show into an open man hole.)
(Song: Run, Candace, Run)
Male and Female Voices: ♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Faster, faster ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Faster, faster ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Faster, faster ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Faster, faster ♪
Male Voice: ♪ Come on girl gotta move gotta run ♪
♪ Gotta feel the road burning ♪
♪ From the heat of the sun ♪
♪ On your feet as you flow ♪
♪ Through the streets down the hills ♪
♪ Passing dogs passing cars ♪
♪ Passing old rock stars ♪
Female Voice: ♪ You can feel all the power ♪
♪ Of the earth as you ride ♪
♪ As it pulls as it pushes ♪
♪ Up and down side to side ♪
♪ You can show they can see ♪
♪ There's the proof on your feet ♪
♪ You're a blur in the air ♪
♪ You've got style you've got flair ♪
(Candace runs past a random bystander in slow-motion)
Male and Female Voices: ♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ (Run, Candace, run) ♪
♪ Faster, faster! ♪
♪ You're light on your feet ♪
♪ You're almost home free ♪
♪ Nothing can stop you ♪
♪ Look out for that tree ♪
(Candace runs into a tree.)
(Cut to a warehouse.)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb. Fire it up! (Ferb turns on a lamp and Phineas attempts to catch up to it.) Sorry, Ferb. The light's just too darn fast. (Ferb puts a check mark under "no" for "Light".)
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Woman: Oh, honey, look at this.  It's like 1973 in here. My favorite year! Ha ha! Where did they ever find such rare furnishings?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, no no, it's all fake. It's made out of cardboard.
Woman: Cardboard? How wonderfully impermanent!
Doofenshmirtz: Wa-wa-wa-wait! What about the neighbors? (exits) They're really crazy. (Comes back in jumping around with his pants on his head.) Look, I live next door and I've got pants on my head! And, uh, (takes out a comb and puts it under his nose like a mustache) I'm Italian. See?
Woman: With neighbors like that, our lives will always be interesting! I can't think of anything that would make this place more attractive.
(Perry chatters and hands Doof the phone.)
Doofenshmirtz: Nulla, per favore.
Woman: (screams) I stand corrected!  Gargoyles! This is it! This is the place! We'll take it!
Male Realtor: I'll draw up the papers.
Doofenshmirtz: Never!
(Cut to Candace still speeding along.)
Candace: Can't stop! Can't stop!
Male Voice: ♪ Come on girl gotta move gotta run ♪
♪ Gotta feel the road burning ♪
♪ From the heat of the sun ♪
♪ On your feet as you flow ♪
♪ Through the streets down the hills ♪
♪ Passing dogs passing cars ♪
♪ Passing old rock stars ♪
Female Voice: ♪ You can feel all the power ♪
♪ Of the earth as you ride ♪
♪ As it pulls as it pushes ♪
♪ Up and down side to side ♪
(Cut back to the woman and her husband with the realtor.)
Woman: Well, I'm hoping for a short escr—Whoa! (Candace speeds away taking the woman.)
Husband: We're gonna check out some other neighborhoods.
(Cut back to the picnic.)
Mrs. Johnson: Front and center, people! Now before we pass out the awards for the games, let's remember the real reason we're here: Grandma Hilda's (who would've guessed she'd live this long) 85th birthday! (applause) Now, let's have a moment of silence to reflect on all she's meant to us.
Male and Female Voices: (accelerando) ♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ Run, Candace, run ♪
♪ (Run, Candace, run) ♪
♪ Faster, faster! ♪
(Candace finally comes to a stop carrying the woman from the open house and destroying the tent and banner behind her. Everyone looks at her. Candace sobs loudly.)
Woman: Can I get down now?
Hilda: That voice. Can it be?  (Candace puts the woman down as Hilda looks her over.) The Johnson eyes. The Johnson nose. Is it possible? (Hilda lifts up the woman's sleeve to reveal a mark shaped in the letter "J" on her arm. Hilda gasps.) She's got the birthmark! It's little Annabelle!
(The family members cheer and give a group hug around Annabelle.)
Annabelle: Nana? Uncle Jack! It's all coming back to me! You were right. I never should have taken that job hanging anvils.
Hilda: Candace, you've made our family whole again. Be good to her, Jeremy. (winks) This one's a keeper.
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I get to stay forever! ♪
♪ I get to stay forever! ♪
Male Realtor: You know it's a shame we didn't make that sale. Now the bank will have no choice (Doof stops celebrating) but to tear this place down and build a greeting card factory.
Doofenshmirtz: But— (Perry gives him the phone again. Doof growls and swipes it from Perry and dials.) Don't gloat, Perry the Platypus. It's not becoming. Hello, Charlene? (Charlene yells on the other line) Yeah, you told me so.



Isabella: Wow Phineas, it's really beautiful up here!
Baljeet: Yes! It was very kind of you to invite us to your grandparents' house. (a basketball flies by, and he ducks to avoid it) No fair! That almost hit me!
Buford: Life's not fair. Earlier today I just missed hitting this kid with a basketball.
Phineas: Hey, Candace. What are you up to today?
Candace: Well, I'll probably try to bust you guys... again! And fail... again! And add another link to my summer-long chain of disappointment and regrets.
Phineas: (Oblivious) How about that, Ferb, Candace already knows what she's gonna do today!
(Cut to inside of grandparents' house)
Clyde: Soo... how's the antique business?
Lawrence: Ooh, it's just fine. You know, they have a saying in the antique business.
(beat)
Clyde: What is it?
Lawrence: What is what?
Clyde: The saying. That you use in the antique business.
Lawrence: Oh, I don't use it. But there is one.
(beat)
Phineas: Hi, dad! Hi, grandpa! We're not interrupting, are we?
Clyde: No, no! No, come in, boys.
Phineas: Ferb and I were just talking about the time you build the balloon and won the most famous balloon race in history. Tell us that story again?
Clyde: Well, I went out to the barn, I built a balloon and I won the most famous balloon race in history.
Phineas: Wow!
Ferb: He makes history come alive.
Phineas: Come on, Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today. If you need us, we'll be out in the barn!
(Phineas and friends open up the barn gates)
Phineas: Cool! Just look at all this great stuff. Hey, where's Perry?
(Perry enters his lair through the chicken coop along with a single hen)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P! After extensive research and computer data analysis we have concluded that the Tri-State Area is experiencing an unprecedented shortage of eggs. We need you to investigate. Good luck, Agent P.
(Perry leaves the lair, Major Monogram notices the hen)
Major Monogram: You there! Weren't you listening? Go make some eggs!
(Cut to Linda and Betty Jo preparing some lemonade in the kitchen)
Betty Jo: Whoa! Whoa, whoa, whoa, stop! You might wanna use the sugar unless you want salty lemonade!
Linda: Oh, I can't wait to get new contacts. I'm as blind as a bat without them.
(knocking)
Betty Jo: Here, use my spare set of glasses.
Linda: Wow, now everything is different kind of blurry.
(Betty Jo answers the door, a woman enters)
Betty Jo: Hi, stranger. Come on in. Everyone, you remember Glenda?
(Candace enters the kitchen)
Linda: Of course! Candace, Glenda was the first female train conductor in the entire Tri-State Area!
Betty Jo: But alas, the train is being decommissioned. And today is Glenda's last trip.
Glenda: And you know what? I'm gonna take her up to Gearheart Summit.
Betty Jo: (gasps) But nobody has ever taken a train up Gearheart Summit, it's too steep!
Glenda: Well, that's what they say, but I'm not the one to give up!
Betty Jo: It's just like you became a conductor.
Glenda: That's right. They told me to give up! (Candace is interested.) But I never give up! (Candace smiles a little.) I'm not the kind of person to give up! (Candace smiles more.) Well, I'm gonna prove that an old train can make it up those tracks. You guys wanna come with me?
Betty Jo: We should all go.
Linda: Sounds like fun!
Glenda: Okay! Train leaves the station at ten sharp! See you there!
Betty Jo: Isn't she something, Candace? That's a woman who would never give up!
(Candace becomes more convinced.)
Glenda: (echoing in Candace's memory) Give up! Blah blah! Give up! Blah blah blah blah blah! Give up! Blah blah blah! Give up!
Candace: It's so simple! I don't know how I didn't think about it before!
(She looks at her to do list saying only "Bust Phineas and Ferb".)
Candace: I'll give up!
(Song: "Give Up")
♪ It's not bad to have goals per se ♪
♪ When your teacher, coach, and counselor ask ♪
♪ Cold hard reality can get in your way ♪
♪ When you're really not up to the task ♪
♪ Well you've been scheming and spying and screaming and crying ♪
♪ But you know there's still something that you're still not trying ♪
♪ Give up! ♪
♪ You've been trying to sell this so long ♪
♪ Even though there's no one out there buying. ♪
♪ Give up! ♪
♪ I know you're tired of the same old song, ♪
♪ But it's not really failure if you're not even trying: ♪
♪ Give up! ♪
♪ Doo-doo-doo-doo-doot-doo-doo ♪
♪ Doo-doo-doo-doo-doot-doo-doo ♪
♪ It's like you're banging your head against the same old wall ♪
♪ Baby all you got to show is a bruise ♪
♪ (All you got show is a bruise) ♪
♪ Well it's a crazy thing to do to just keep on repeating ♪
♪ All these actions that will only lead to cranial bleeding ♪
♪ Give up! ♪
♪ It's time for you to throw in the towel, ♪
♪ Capitulate and raise the white flag ♪
♪ Give up! ♪
♪ And don't be bitter just because you're a quitter, ♪
♪ You can even hold up your head up and brag ♪
♪ That's right, you gave up ♪
♪ She gave up! She gave up! ♪
♪ I gave up! ♪
Candace: That's right, I never even suited up, folks!
♪ I gave up! ♪
Candace: I threw the baby out with the bathwater!
♪ I gave up! ♪
Candace: I forgot the Alamo!
♪ I gave up! ♪
Candace: I'm not even going for the bronze!
♪ I gave up! ♪
Candace: I'm staying right here, man.
♪ I gave up! ♪
Candace: In this hammock. I like it. Aw, it's beautiful, man.
(Cut to the barn)
Phineas: Okay everyone, let's get this race started. Contact!
(The roof opens and three balloons fly up)
Buford: Last one at the top of the mountain is a stinky dish sponge!
(A fourth balloon in the shape of a heart flies up.)
Isabella: What'cha dooooin'?
Phineas: About... five knots.
Isabella: Thought so, I'm doing six! See you at the summit, slowpokes!
Buford: Hey, we're falling behind! What's happening?
Baljeet: Excessive weight seems to be hampering our progress.
Buford: Yeah, we have to lighten the load. (throws Baljeet out of the basket)
Baljeet: Aaah, aah! How does dangling me from a rope lighten our load?
Buford: Meh, it lightens my spirit.
Baljeet: (hitting various obstacles) Ow! Ow, ow ow!
Buford: Mountain lion! (mountain lion roars)
Baljeet: Aaah!
(Cut to...)
♪ Doofenshmirtz vacation condo! ♪
(Perry lands on the terrace next to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: (sighs) Ah, Perry the Platypus. Well, I guess it serves me right for bringing work on vacation with me. Aaand there it is. (Perry is trapped in a egg-shaped container) Man, are we in a rut. Anyway, this is my Dodo-Bird-Incubator... well, you know... -inator. With this amazing device I can transform any egg to a Dodo egg. Once they hatch I will march my terrifying Dodo bird army across the Tri-State Area. You know, I don't really know what they look like, but they're extinct like dinosaurs, so just imagine! Giant, extinct dinosaur-like monsters laying waste to the city! Ah, you know, you, you really picked me up out of my doldrums.
(Cut to Linda, Candace, Betty Jo and Glenda getting on the train)
Betty Jo: We're all here and ready to help, what would you like us to do?
Glenda: Just sit back and enjoy the view, the train will do all the work.
Candace: Doin' nothing? Got that covered.
Glenda: All aboard! Gearheart Summit, here we come!
(train leaves the station)
Orville Wilkins: You'll never make it! You should give up!
Wilbur Wilkins: Yeah, give up, woo-hoo!
Glenda: So long boys, and don't forget to clean your rooms!
Orville/Wilbur: Yes, mom.
Orville: It's your fault.
Wilbur: Quiet, you!
(Cut to kids flying over the train)
Phineas: Looks like a dead heat so far.
Baljeet: We need to pick up the pace.
Buford: Alright, I'll get rid of this. (throws a taxidermied marlin away)
Baljeet: I do not know why you even brought the swordfish!
Buford: It's a marlin.
(The marlin bounces off the branch and pierces Baljeet's and Buford's balloon.)
Baljeet: Oh no...
Buford: Little help, guys!
Phineas: Ferb.
(Ferb shoots a grappling hook and the boys climb up to Ferb's balloon. Scene switches to the train, where Linda and Betty Jo are playing card game)
Linda: So Candace, you sure seem relaxed. What's up? (behind her, the kids in their balloons can be seen through the window)
Candace: I'm just taking in the ride and not worrying about what Phineas and Ferb are up to.
Linda: Well good for you, honey. Cause I've got gin.
Betty Jo: We're playing Kings Corners.
Linda: Are we?
(Cut to the condo)
Doofenshmirtz: It's working! (the egg begins to hatch) It's wonderful! It's amazing! It's...! (giant dodo bird hatches)
Dodo: Narg narg narg! Narg!
Doofenshmirtz: It's... (sighs) not quite as terrifying as I hoped.
Dodo: Narg!
Doofenshmirtz: How am I supposed to take over the Tri-State Area with a bunch of these? Where's the horror, the terror the- (Perry gets out of his trap) Oh nooo! You, you'll have to wait in line, Perry the Platypus! First I gotta deal with this! I mean, this looks like a turkey, it's like Thanksgiving. (Dodo bird pecks Doofenshmirtz furiously) It's EXACTLY like Thanksgiving!
(Cut to the train)
Candace: Hey, Glenda, how's it going?
Glenda: Mighty fine! You're looking chipper.
Candace: Oh yeah, I've been feeling great ever since I decided to heed your advice and give up.
Glenda: Come again?
Candace: Well, all summer I've been just thinking about busting my brothers, but after your speech this morning I've just gave up. And now I'm much more relaxed.
Glenda: So what you got from my speech about how you should never give up is that you should give up?
Candace: Well, you did say "give up" a lot.
Glenda: I did say that, didn't I.
Candace: Ah, Glenda? Glenda! The train is slowing down.
Glenda: So it is. I guess we're out of coal. (sits down) Oh well.
Candace: What? You can't give up! No coal means no steam, and no steam means we can't make up the hill!
Glenda: Meh.
Candace: We gotta do something! We need fuel! Wait! I have an idea that just might work. And don't think I don't know what you're up to. I'll be right back.
(Candace saws off some wood from the train)
Linda: She's such an active child.
Candace: Just out of curiosity, what's going to happen to this train after today?
Glenda: It'll be torn apart and an sold for scrap, why?
Candace: No reason.
(At the grandparents' house, Lawrence and Clyde sit in silence; in the background Doofenshmirtz runs from the dodo bird, screaming. Back in the train:)
Linda: What are we playing again?
(Cut to Isabella and Phineas)
Isabella: Hey Phineas, what'cha doin' over there?
Phineas: My steering is a little loose, I think that- (stops, looks behind)
Isabella: (suddenly standing next to Phineas) Do you need some help?
Phineas: Well, yeah. Can you hold the wheel while I tighten it?
Isabella: (holds it) Gladly!
Phineas: Well, that's perfect.
Isabella: Yes. Yes, it is.
(Doofenshmirtz falls down the cliff while running from the dodo bird)
Phineas: Check it out! A dodo bird! What's next on the list, Ferb?
Ferb: (crossing off a list of the title sequence) Frankenstein's brain.
Buford: Yeeeah, uh, that was in my balloon.
(the train arrives at the station)
Candace: Woo-hoo! Yes, we made it! I knew we could, I knew we could, I knew we could!
Glenda: Oh, did you now?
Candace: Yeah, you can drop the act. I know you didn't forget to bring coal. It's probably in that box you're sitting on. But...lesson learned, and as long as I'm no longer giving up, I'm gonna go bust Phineas and Ferb. (jumps through the window) Thanks!
(pause)
Glenda: I could have forgot the coal! (beat) I'm old!
Linda: Do you notice anything different here?
Betty Jo: Yeah! Everything's half off at the gift shop!
(scene shifts to the kids)
Phineas: Here we are! Gearheart Summit. Let's put them down over there, Ferb.
Candace: (looking at Ferb's outfit in the gift shop) Why is it every store sells this outfit? (notices the balloons) Mom, mom! Look what Phineas and Ferb are doing! Come quick! (points at the outfits and the head-shaped balloons behind them) Look, look! Right there! You see?! You see?!
Linda: Okay Candace. (adjusts the glasses)
(Point of view shot from Linda, we see a rather blurry image of the balloons and the outfits.)
Linda: Oh, hello, boys. (walks away)
Candace: ...What? (turns around) No!
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz in torn clothes)
Doofenshmirtz: A-ha! (runs to the balloon)
Dodo: Narg, narg, narg, narg! (runs into the second balloon)
Doofenshmirtz: Sayonara, dodo! (both balloons take off) Hey, how did you start that with no opposable thumbs?
(Candace pushes the clothing racket out of the scene just as the balloons take off.)
Candace: Mom, look, it's just forced perspective, look! They're not really here! (The real Phineas and Ferb come over.) It's an optical illusion! He's not really --
(Long pause, Candace notices that the boys have arrived and slowly goes to touch Phineas.)
Phineas: Hi, Candace!
Candace: Aaah!
Phineas: How was the train ride?
Candace: (pause) Oh, I give up. (walks away)

End Credits
Doofenshmirtz: (sighs) Some vacation this turned out to be. (the dodo makes a hole in his balloon)
(Cut to Farmer and Farmer's Wife)
Farmer's Wife: So you bought a Museum of Biological Oddities, but you didn't get any biological oddities?(Doofenshmirtz falls through the roof)
Doofenshmirtz: Huh. What? (dodo falls in and lands on him)
Farmer's Wife: There it is!
Dodo: Narg narg narg! Narg!



Part I
(Scene opens up in Phineas and Ferb's room showing that Phineas is sleeping)(Then the alarm clock at 6:59 AM. As it goes off, it makes a party blower sound, shows the words "Happy Birthday", two star flags pop up and confetti rains all over the alarm clock)
Phineas: (Wakes up, snoozes alarm clock) Another fantastic year older, and this is gonna be the best birthday ever! So, what are we gonna do, Ferb? (Camera pans to Ferb's bed, showing a card) Ferb? (Camera zooms in) Huh! A note! (Gets off his bed) "For the celebration of your birthday, just follow these clues to show you the way". Cool! It's like a birthday adventure. But hey, where's Ferb?
(Outside, Ferb puts on a fedora and runs out the gate)
♪ Ferb! ♪
Candace: (Talking on her cell phone) I can't believe it! It's Phineas's birthday, and I still don't know what to get him! What can you get for the boy who can make everything? (Sighs) It's my fault. I should have been thinking about this before, but I've just been so distracted by trying to bust Phineas and-- Wait! (Notices Ferb behind a tree; The garage door opens and Ferb runs into the garage) What is he up to? T-T-Y-L, Stacy!
(Inside the garage)
Isabella: Hey, Ferb! (Ferb takes off his fedora) We were just discussing our plans for Phineas' birthday. The circus we ordered won't be arriving 'til later in the day, (Irving walks up) but Irving had a great idea for a warm-up.
Irving: We should make a video compilation of all of Phineas' greatest moments!
Buford: What? Like on a clip show? (Crosses his arms) Lame.
Irving: Not where a genius like Phineas is concerned, watch this. (Turns on TV)
(Clips: Phineas quotes)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb. Let's see what we can do about that pesky gravitational pull. (Ferb presses a button on a controller)
Phineas: (Explaining Candace her mission) After you wrestle the crocodiles, you'll corkscrew through the overpass and free-fall past the flaming high wire to make your last delivery and receive the 50th patch.
Phineas: (In a video game) Wow, a castle! Nice art direction, Ferb.
Phineas: (Riding on a rocket attached to a bike with Ferb and Candace) Good thing we had this extra rocket engine, huh?
Phineas: (Showing a giant paper-maché plane) Eat your heart out, Howard Hughes.
Phineas: (Showing Isabella a dining room) Behold! A romantic candlelit dinner for two.
Phineas: (Building a giant card house) We're almost finished with our exact replica of the Temple of Angkor Wat.
Phineas: (Showing a giant contraption) The Phineas-and-Ferb-edge-of-insanity-kiss-your-butt-goodbye-gravity's-a-stone-cold-sucker-nightmare-rail-skate-track-obstacle-course of doom!
Candace: Will you please tell me what's going on here?
Phineas: We're building an animation studio.
Phineas: (Exiting a giant bowling ball) That was amazing!
Phineas: (With Linda's tricked-out car) The flying car of the future, today, is still pulling a bit to the right.
(With the Candace Crusher)
Lawrence: A monster truck!
Phineas: Yeah! Isn't it sweet?
Phineas: (Revealing the rollercoaster) THE COOLEST... COASTER... EVER!
(Ferb reveals the coaster. A bird flies into it)
Irving: (Imitating fanfare. The camera zooms out as he imitates a kettle drum beat and turns off the TV)
Baljeet: Why did you not just use the kettle drum?
Irving: I never learned how to play. (Pushes the kettle drum away, and a cat yowls) Anyway, (Candace looks through the window and swoons) By utilizing my extensive collection of spy cameras, I've got footage of everything that Phineas has ever done. But I haven't had time to edit all of it-- Well, what, with-- You know, filming more. (He and Baljeet, Buford and Isabella walk to Ferb) I've divided up all the video into 3 parts. (Shows the CDs) Each of you take a section, (Isabella, Baljeet and Buford each takes a CD) Edit your tribute, and we'll meet at the party later.
(Candace shows an evil face. The garage door opens and Isabella, Baljeet and Buford run out of the garage. The garage door closes)
Candace: (Giggles)
Phineas: (Runs to the kitchen) "This birthday excursion will take you afar, you'll find your next clue where the 2x4s are". 2x4s, huh? Perry, are you thinking what I'm-- (Camera pans to Perry's bed) Hey, where's Perry?

(Scene shifts to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: (To Carl) Okay, now let me to do the talking.
(Agent P walks to his seat)
Major Monogram: Oh, Agent P! There's a something we need to discuss for a while, you see Perry's job and performances which come up, (Perry's face became surprised) but don't get me wrong, it's just like your entrances became "lackluster" lately. (Perry's face became sad) We just expect more from you. Roll the footage Carl!
Carl: Right away sir.
(Clips: Perry's entrances)
(Perry falls through a trough and swims into his lair while dodging laser sharks)
(Perry slides down a tree trunk and manages to catch a falling vase upon entering the lair)
(Perry enters through a vending machine but gets stuck on the slide and has to pull himself along)
(Perry, wearing a pet cone, tries to pass through the entrance on the side of the house, but is repeatedly blocked by the cone)
(A giant Perry lifts the roof off of the lair and sits down)
(Perry unfolds a fold-out sofa, lays on it, and folds it back up)
(Perry is launched into the air by a fence board and falls through an opening in the ground)
(Perry pulls a book and jumps through a filing cabinet drawer)
(Perry rides a log through an amusement park-style tunnel)
(Song: Mission)
Animatronic Animals: ♪ You're gonna get a mission ♪
♪ A mission, a mission ♪
♪ A brand-new mission ♪
♪ What's it gonna be? ♪
♪ Go and get your mission ♪
♪ Your mission, your mission ♪
♪ A brand-new mission ♪
♪ We can't wait to see! ♪
Major Monogram: What happened to that guy? No pressure, but style counts. (Perry salutes and walks away sadly) Let's, uh, let's give him a few days, and then we should talk to him about his exits.
(Scene shifts to the Garcia-Shapiro house)
Candace: Hi-ya, Isabella.
Isabella: Oh hi Candace, what are you doing here? In my house?
Candace: Oh just barging around. You know me, big barger. So, what is that?
Isabella: Oh, just a little birthday video I'm editing for Phineas.
Candace: Then let's see.
(Candace plays the video)
Computer Phineas: (in the video, spliced together) We'll-Be-Together-Forever-Isabella.
Isabella: (Looks embarrassed at Candace) Hehe...
Candace: But... don't you have anything more, you know, unusual?
Isabella: Of course! Watch this. (Presses play)
Isabella: (in video) I saw the best girls of my troop, hungry, patchless, out of uniform.
Candace: Okay, seriously, whoa. I mean, like Phineas's inventions?
Isabella: Nope, I didn't get any of that footage.
Candace: Then you're useless to me. Candace out!
Isabella: (After Candace leaves) Hm... I'll have to talk to her about her exits.
(Isabella returns to editing her video)
Computer Phineas: (spliced again) Isabella-Will-You-Marry-Me?
Isabella: (dreamily) Ah... The magic of digital editing!
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I see you, Perry the Platypus, now kick the door... (Perry kicks the door and the trap, a large TV, activates) Haha! Gotcha, Perry the Platypus! Hee hee hee! I saw you coming from my video surveillance system! Ah, if I had a nickel for every time I've trapped you.
(Clips: Perry's traps; after each clip, a counter in the top-right corner of the screen goes up by $0.05)
(Perry is enclosed by falling bricks)
(Perry is captured in a durable bubble shot by Doofenshmirtz)
(Perry is trapped by a machine that winds duct tape around him)
(Restraints pin Perry's hands, feet, and tail to a crate)
(Doofenshmirtz pushes a button, and Perry, sitting in a lounge chair, is now trapped in a cage)
(Perry opens a satchel, releasing a metal belt that pins him to the wall)
(Perry lands and is trapped inside a large Perry replica)
(Perry is tied up by a lowering coil of rope)
(Perry, sitting in a car, is fastened into a baby seat)
(A metal helmet lands on Perry's head and holds him above the floor)
(in the woods)
Doofenshmirtz: Come here. (Perry steps forward and a cage falls on him) Ha-ha-ha!
(Doofenshmirtz zaps Perry, trapping him in a ball gown; Perry tries to move but falls down and his arms are restrained)
(A large column lands on Perry and traps him in a baby table)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha-ha-ha!
(A net pins Perry to the ceiling)
(A large glass bubble lowers onto Perry)
(Perry lands and is immediately trapped inside a large diving helmet)
(The floor below Perry opens up and he falls)
(A net encloses around Perry and yanks him up)
(Perry is trapped inside a metal box with armholes)
(Perry is trapped in a falling pet carrier)
(Perry steps in a rope loop and is flung up by his ankle)
(The box Perry is carrying turns into a plaque that encloses the platypus: the counter stops at $1.10)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha-ha! Made you carry your own trap!
(back to Doofenshmirtz in front of his wall of TVs)
Doofenshmirtz: Huh, I thought it would be more than that. I guess I could get a candy bar or something. Anyway, I've been studying all my previous schemes and I figured out why they always seem to fail. Let's see if you can figure out what they all have in common. Look!
(Clips: Doofenshmirtz's -inators)
Doofenshmirtz: Behold! The Mime-inator!
Doofenshmirtz: The Mountain-out-of-a-Molehill-inator!
Doofenshmirtz: The Aerosol-Propelled Ozone-Deplete-inator!
Doofenshmirtz: The Metal Destruct-inator!
Doofenshmirtz: Giant Dog Biscuit-inator. (dogs bark) Thank you! Thank you for making my point for me!
Doofenshmirtz: The Gloom-inator 3000!... inator.
Doofenshmirtz: My Smell-inator!
Doofenshmirtz: My Blow-Itself-Up-inator! (explodes)
Doofenshmirtz: The Monster-Truck-Away-inator.
Doofenshmirtz: The Atomic Leaf Blower-inator!
Doofenshmirtz: The Sandwich Suit Remove-inator!
Doofenshmirtz: I call it my Turn Everything Evil-inator.
(back to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: See? They all have "-inator" in the name. That is why they fail. Which is why I named my latest creation, The Video-Beam-Hijack-Non-Inator! You see, I added "non" to the name, because "non" means "not", so it's a "not-an-inator", therefore, it can't not fail. Get it? I mean, it can't... can't fail, it... okay.
(Scene shifts to Candace)
Candace: Heeheehee... (phone rings) Hi, Mom.
Linda: (on the phone) Where are you, Candace? You promised you'd help frost the cake after you got Phineas's present.
Candace: Yeah, well I got a little sidetracked preparing the bust of the century. Later today, I'm going to show you something you won't believe.
Linda: If I have a nickel for every time I've heard that.
(Clips: Candace yelling for Mom; 5-cent counter goes up after each clip)
Candace: Mom, you've got to see this.
Candace: Mom, they're driving a herd of cattle right through downtown.
Candace: See, Mom? There! Mom?
Candace: Mom! Dad! Heeheeheehee. Look at what Phineas and Ferb did to the backyard!
Candace: See? It's a submarine!
Candace: (in Picasso's "Guernica") Mom! Mom! Mom!
Candace: Come on, come on. You gotta see this.
Linda: Candace, will you--
Candace: Mom, you gotta come home right away. Phineas and Ferb have... th-they build a... a thing that... that... oh, what's the use?
Candace: Mom! Mom! Look at this! Look at me!
Candace: MOM! MOM! MOM! MOM! MOM!
Candace: Mom! Mom! Giant building!
Candace: Come on, come on, come on!
Candace: Mom, you've gotta see this! It's about your car!
Candace: Mom! Mom! Quick! Mom! Look! Before it disappears!
Linda: Now where's this giant animation studio?
Candace: It got up, and it danced away.
Linda: It what?
Candace: It got up, and it danced, away. (counter stops at $0.75)
Linda: Hmm. I guess I can buy a candy bar.
(Scene shifts to Phineas at Tri-State Plank & Board)
Phineas: Tri-State Plank & Board. Some of our best structures were born here. (walks inside)
Worker: Phineas Flynn. Is that the birthday boy I hear?
Phineas: Yep. (removes helmet shaped like the top of his head) In the flesh.
Worker: Oh, you and your helmet.
Phineas: Have you seen Ferb today?
Worker: No, but I did see a guy in a robotic bird-themed super suit shooting eggs out of his wrist.
Phineas: (points his finger at her)
Worker: ...and that was Ferb, wasn't it?
Phineas: It's a safe bet. We used a robotic bird-themed super suit to save City Hall this summer.
Worker: Aren't you a little young...
Phineas: (laughs) If I had a nickel for every time I've heard that.
(Clips: "Aren't you a little young..."; 5-cent counter goes up after each clip)
Factory Manager: Aren't you a little young to be a roller coaster engineer?
Contractor: Aren't you a little young to be a landscape contractor?
J.B.: Aren't you a bit young to be toy designers?
Ben Baxter: Aren't you a little young to be pop stars?
Charlene Doofenshmirtz: Aren't you a little young to be detectives?
Boat Captain: Aren't you boys a little young to man a fishing vessel?
Officer: Aren't you a little young to be working in a museum?
Delivery Man 3: Aren't you a little young to order all this?
Delivery Man 2: Yes, yes he is. (to Phineas) Sorry, Phineas. He's new.
Delivery Guy: Aren't you kids a little young to be discovering Atlantis?
Danny: Aren't you a little young to be fans of Love Händel?
Charitable Charities Manager 3: Aren't you a little young to know about all these old detective shows?
Ranger: Aren't you boys a little young to be restoring a national monument?
Phineas: Yes. Yes we are. (counter stops at $0.60)
(back to Tri-State Plank & Board)
Worker: Was I supposed to see something just now?
Phineas: Nah, I was just thinking to myself. It's a clip show. So where'd you see Ferb?
Worker: He was right over here. That suit really holds a lot of eggs.
(the two of them walk to a wall with a picture of a Slushy Dawg on it, made from the eggs, and a pile of egg shells at its base)
Phineas: Huh. A visual clue!
Worker: Is that a Slushy Dawg on a stick?
Phineas: Yep, and a fine example of the lost art of egg-rendering.
(Scene shifts to Baljeet's room in his house)
Baljeet: Almost done.
Candace: (kicks the door open) You! Step away from the computer! I want to see that video.
Baljeet: But...
Candace: Play it!
Baljeet: Okay, okay!
Candace: Phineas and Ferb, I've got you now! (Baljeet presses Play)
(Clips: strange moments)
(Song: The Ballad of Badbeard)
Candace: (hallucinating, singing) ♪ Why do my nostrils whisper to me? ♪
(A woman grabs a giant baby's hand and leads her away)
(Robot Linda's face opens and a small alien starts speaking in alien dialect)
(Professor Poofenplotz's Me-Mobile is pinned to a building by Pinky's harpoon)
(Phineas and Ferb chase the oversized A-Primes through their hotel's hallway)
Talking Zebra: I voted for you, Kevin.
(in a dark red cave)
Linda: Ki-ki-ki-ki-ki!
Lawrence: Ki-ki-ki-ki-ki!
Linda, Lawrence: Ki-ki-ki-ki-ki!
Ba-dink-a-dinks: We are the Ba-dink-a-dinks!
(Back to Candace and Baljeet)
Candace: What the heck was that?
Baljeet: That is what I said! Sure, give the weird stuff to Baljeet! Who cares if it does not work out of context?
Candace: Where's the rest?
Baljeet: This is all they gave me!
Candace: Ugh, that leaves Buford. (leaves)
Baljeet: I need better clips.

Part II
(Scene opens up at Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, "trapped Perry the Platypus." It's my favorite show; but you know what, my least favorite show is this. (turns on T.V.)
Announcer: (Roger is seen chopping some wood and kissing a baby. He is also seen at the Tri-State Area costume ball in a superhero costume with a woman in a cat costume. Then, Roger jumps into the air a la Superman, while the woman looks up in surprise.) Culture. Square-jawed. Danville Mayor Roger Doofenshmirtz. Profiled on: "Younger Brothers of the Useless."
Doofenshmirtz: It's a 12-part mini-series running all day long; nothing but propaganda. He can't really fly, they did that with wires. So that is why I invented the Video-Beam-Hijack-Non-inator; "non"-inator, mind you, for reasons we've already discussed. With this, I will preempt the biography of my brother so he can't rely on that 14-karat smile and his freakish ability to not be despised. I mean, look at this city, look at all that urban blight that, uh... that isn't there anymore, and... and the public transportation, all... uh, clean and... efficient and... (sighs) running on time... Okay, let's just say I'm gonna let Roger warm up the room for me, then I'll preempt his ridiculous documentary with live video of me announcing my take-over of the Tri-State Area. (puts on Roger's glasses) And maybe I'll put on these glasses like he wears. (tosses them aside) I don't know. What am I, gonna throw away my best stuff on a clip show? Forget it. Now let's light this pop stand. Could take a while, though. It's gotta... it's gotta warm up... vacuum tube.
(Scene shifts to the Van Stomm house, where Candace is waiting for a chance for Buford to leave his room.)
Candace: This is it. All I need to do is get Buford away from that computer and...
Biffany: (off-screen) Buford, honey, come over here!
Buford: (off-screen) Coming, Mom!
Candace: Ooh, lucky break. (climbs in through the window) Okay, let's see. (presses Play)
(Clips: Phineas and Ferb's inventions)
(The ride from "Don't Even Blink" does random things. Phineas is seen laughing, then Isabella. Then to Ferb, then Buford.)
(Song: Quirky Worky Song)
♪ Suitty-up-booty-up-billa-be-do-do-da ♪
♪ Do-da-be-de-da, da-da, da-da-da ♪
Phineas: Howdy, Candace. Enjoying the rodeo?
(The airborne Mix N' Mingler, spinning rapidly, ejects several people, including Phineas, into the air)
Phineas: Well, here's the foyer; all-imported marble, by the way...
Phineas: You can stop laughing and pointing, because now it's time for... (his oversized pants fall down) Oops.
(Song: A-G-L-E-T)
Phineas: ♪ A-G-L-E-T... ♪
(A mechanical hand comes out of an oven and pies Candace in the face)
(Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Baljeet, Buford, and Irving shrink)
Isabella: Wow! We're really tiny!
(Candace grabs onto the time machine and she, Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, and Future Candace travel through the time vortex into the future)
(The rocket-shaped kiddie ride launches)
Buford: (screams)
Phineas: Here's the bowling alley, pool, telescope...
Phineas: Ferb?
(Ferb pulls a lever and the Holy Mackerel levels out)
Candace: What do you mean, "maze"?
(The screen pans out three times, revealing the entire maze)
(The Molecular Separator zaps the two Candaces, turning them into 13 Candaces)
(Phineas, Ferb, and Perry ride a coffin down a waterfall, getting their picture taken)
(Phineas, Ferb, and Candace launch up through a cloud)
Candace: (screams)
Phineas: Hey look, a cloud angel!
Phineas: ...terracotta army room, (shouting) jet engine wind tunnel...
(Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, and a herd of cattle ride down cliffside waterslides)
(Song: Yippy Ki Yi Yay!)
(Ferb controls The Beak down the massive skate ramp)
(Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, and an alien have fun playing in Mitch's alien zoo)
Phineas: ...and, scoring stage with 40-piece orchestra.
Buford: Buford's first!
(Buford and all the kids ride the Fun Preservers down the escape slide)
(Song: Gotta Make Summer Last)
♪ Summer, I love summer, ♪
♪ Give me that summertime ♪
(The suit of armor with Phineas and Ferb sticking out of the arms crashes into the other jousting horse)
(A room full of chickens in glass cages is charged up by a strange energy device)
Candace: Bom bom bom bom bom bom bom bom... It's so beautiful! (climbs out the window carrying the CD)
Candace: I got it! Ha ha ha! Ah ha ha! (shouting to the entire street) Today, I will bust my brothers, and this time, I mean it!
Man 1: I've heard that before!
Man 2: Every day the same thing.
Man 3: Is that that girl again?
Candace: You'll see! (car alarm goes off)
(Scene shifts to the Googolplex Mall)
Phineas: Googolplex Mall, home of the original Slushy Dawg. Hey Jeremy!
Jeremy: Want a Slushy Dawg?
Phineas: Sure. Supersuit-generated egg renderings always make me a bit peckish.
Jeremy: I bet that's the first time anybody's ever said that. By the way, (hands Phineas a folded piece of paper) Ferb left this clue for you.
Phineas: Thanks.
Jeremy: I bet you guys have heard a lot of strange sentences over the course of the summer. (hands Phineas a Slushy Dawg)
Phineas: Boy, I'll say. (takes a bite)
Jeremy: Can you think of any examples?
Phineas: Nope, not offhand. See ya! (leaves)
Jeremy: Happy birthday! (begins whistling while cleaning the counter)
Phineas: Wait a minute! (running back to the counter) I just remembered some!
(Clips: Strange sentences)
Phineas: Nothing says mother's love like a giant robotic platypus butt.
Candace: Why am I wearing a turtle on my head?
Buford: I wanna float around! Like men.
Candace (in Perry's body): Am I sweating milk?
Future Candace: Gotta go, Stacy. Good luck with that llama legislation.
Man: Run for your lives! It's Gnome-ageddon!
Isabella: Stickiness is the most underrated of all the -nesses...
Buford: (rowing a boat past a lighthouse) I knew I should've gotten the down payment on the elephants.
Linda: It looks a little like a rhesus monkey wearing a powdered wig.
Stacy: (as the Dangerbil) Ohh, no. You did not just tell me to hench.
Phineas: What, you think we should have more Bulgarian folk-related elements?
Linda: I'll be in the dairy section if you want to come yell at some cheese.
Phineas: Dad, you might want to wipe the queen off your face.
(Song: F-Games)
Baljeet: I, too, feel a certain element of kabob-ism.
Ferb: Definitely the giant floating baby head.
Buford: I am to metaphor cheese as metaphor cheese is to transitive verb crackers.
Candace: I just discovered why cows and frogs don't date.
Phineas: "Lawn gnome beach party of taffeta." Make a note of that.
Candace: I'm calling Mom. (goes inside, slamming the door; promptly reopens it) And I am not using the banana this time!
Phineas: Couldn't see any of that, though, could you?
Jeremy: Not a bit.
Phineas: It's a clip show thing. (unfolds and reads clue) "I hope you had fun on this scavenger hunt, now head back to the place where we plan all our stunts." Home it is!
(Scene shifts to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh yeah, we're gettin' there now! Soon I will preempt my brother's documentary marathon with my own live video! And there's not a thing you can do about it, like... li... like all those other times.
(Clips: Doofenshmirtz and Perry's fights)
(Doofenshmirtz and Perry fight with wrenches; Perry pounds a screw into Doofenshmirtz' foot)
Doofenshmirtz: Now I can't make up my mind- (Perry punches Doof repeatedly in the face)
(Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz into a lever, switching it to "Blow")
(Perry repeatedly pecks Doofenshmirtz in the head)
(Devolved Perry and Doofenshmirtz fight; Perry pins Doofenshmirtz down and repeatedly pecks his head)
Doofenshmirtz: I can't believe you fell for that (pulls down a fake window) fake window trick. Ha-ha-ha... (Perry swings through the window and kicks Doofenshmirtz)
(Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz into his blimp's control panel)
Doofenshmirtz: How did you get out of that double knot?
Doofenshmirtz: (standing on top of Big Ben) Ha ha ha ha ha! Hey! (Perry appears behind him, kicks him off the tower, and catches his remote)
(Perry and Doofenshmirtz have a sword fight with a hot dog and bratwurst, respectively; Perry slaps Doofenshmirtz in the face with the hog dog several times)
(Perry and Doofenshmirtz are zapped by the dance ray and start dancing)
Doofenshmirtz: No, that's not it eith...Aah! (Perry pulls him away from the hovercraft controls)
(Perry throws a chair through the Invis-inator's ray; it turns invisible and hits Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: ...it turns you visible ag...Aagh! Ow! Oh, well that came out of nowhere.
(Doofenshmirtz is turned inside-out after being zapped by a ray)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, great. Now I have to make an Outside-In-inator.
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, how did you escape? (Perry beckons Doofenshmirtz to come closer, then punches him in the face) What's that? Oh!
(Perry slams a trash can onto Doofenshmirtz's head and kicks him; Doofenshmirtz staggers backwards and removes the trash can, but falls off his balcony and screams)
Doofenshmirtz: (having been hit with the Age Accelerator-inator) Well, it's already 4:30; I think I'm going to bed. Curse you, Perry the Platypus.
Doofenshmirtz: I shouldn't dwell on it, i...it's just too painful. But I gotta stop living in the past.
(Perry slips his tail under the TV screen and hits one of the TV's buttons, raising the trap)
Doofenshmirtz: What? Why did I put that button on the... Oh, I guess aesthetically, it ma... (Perry punches Doofenshmirtz, who flies across the room) Oof! You may have escaped my TV trap, Perry the Platypus, but I'm still going to change your channel! Ah-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! (Doofenshmirtz pulls a laser remote out of his lab coat and fires it at Perry. He misses and shoots several holes in the wall; Perry uses a nearby flatscreen TV as cover. Perry grabs another remote from the top of the TV and fires at Doofenshmirtz) Oh, that one shoots too? Whoo! Who knew? (Doofenshmirtz uses a nearby TV as cover as the two fight)
(Scene shifts to just outside the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Phineas: Well, all roads lead to home, I guess. I can't wait to see what they ha...
Phineas' friends: Happy birthday, Phineas! (the yard is filled with Phineas-shaped balloons, and has a stage with a giant TV screen reading "Happy Birthday, Phineas")
Tabitha Comstock: You're the best!
Isabella: Phineas Flynn, welcome to your birthday! (rockets and stars appear on the TV screen)
(Back at D. E. I., Perry and Doofenshmirtz are still fighting. Meanwhile, Candace is running down the street, holding the disc)
Candace: Hee hee! Hee! Hee! Just a few more blocks and I'm gonna bust my brothers for all the stuff that's on this DVD!
(Back to Doof and Perry: Doofenshmirtz zaps the last part of the TV Perry was using for protection, then zaps Perry's remote)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha-HA! I got ya!
(Doofenshmirtz shoots at Perry, who handsprings out of the way; the remote's laser hits a mirror and bounces back. Doofenshmirtz dodges the reflected laser, which hits a leg on the Video-Beam-Hijack-Non-inator, causing it to tilt just as it fires)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, great. Now it's pointing in the wrong direction. The wrong direction!
Candace: (still running down the street) Heeheeheeheehee... Ooh! A dollar! (leans down to pick up the dollar just as the Non-inator's beam passes over her head)
Construction video: (being watched by an on-site water repairman, needing to insert a pipe marked with arrows between two other pipes marked with arrows) Welcome to Danville's new on-the-job video training program. When installing pipes, always make sure the arrows are pointing... (the Non-inator's beam hits the TV, switching the video image with that of Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: (on the on-site TV) ...the wrong direction! The wrong direction! The wrong direction, I tell you!
(The repairman uses an odd-looking wrench to fit the pipe in with the arrows pointing opposite directions. The pipe splits along each fitting, causing the very end of the pipe to launch off; it hits a one-way sign, turning it around. This redirects a DVD recycling truck towards oncoming traffic; alerted by other drivers' horns, the truck driver swerves off the road. The truck breaks through a guardrail and slides down a hill)
Candace: (having picked up the dollar) Hah! (gasps)
(The truck hits a barrier at the bottom of the hill, causing its back doors to open, sending a wave of DVDs at Candace. Candace holds her DVD above the incoming wave and successfully walks out of the pile, still with her disc)
Candace: Ha-ha, I made it! Hee, hee, hee, hee...
(The pipe fitted by the repairman bulges and bursts, sending it and the wrench flying, hitting a few birds on the way up.)
Candace: (turns around) AAAAHHH! (the birds dive-bomb her as she runs away) Birds?! What is happening?!?! (she dodges the birds)
Candace: That's it! I made it! I... AAAAHHH! (she trips and launches the DVD into the air) Oh no!
Candace: (seeing a parade of elephants coming down the street) A circus? What the...
(Candace does a front flip and kicks the disc back into the air just before reaching the elephants. She jumps onto the elephant's back, swings down a "PHINEAS" banner held by the circus performers, and zips past a unicycling clown. Candace suddenly finds herself juggling two bowling pins and the disc while unicycling, and launches off a road construction ramp. Candace catches the disc and rolls down a dirt pile to a stop.)
Balthazar: Can I have your autograph?
(the clown's hat lands on Candace's head, and the wrench lands in Candace's other hand)
Candace: Oh yeah, baby, it's happenin'.
(Back at D. E. I.)
Doofenshmirtz: (seeing the tilted Non-inator) Oh, now look what you made me do... 40 seconds ago, Perry the Platypus. Now I'm going to have to even out the legs! But first, I'm going to get even with you! (pushes the remote's button, but it doesn't work) I, oh, I, uh, I... I seem to be out of batteries. Could you wait while I go get the, um, uh... (Perry points another remote at Doofenshmirtz and fires) Perry the Platypus, no! (Doofenshmirtz ducks; the remote's laser misses him and hits the Non-inator, which explodes) Okay, maybe the "-inator" name wasn't the problem.
(Perry jetpacks away from D. E. I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Platypus! (Perry hears this and smiles)
(Back at Phineas' party)
Linda: I just feel so bad we missed the video presentation while we were at the bakery.
Lawrence: Well, we couldn't very well serve that cake, the way those wild penguins tore it apart, could we? And to think that they were carried away by a freak tornado!
Candace: (running up) Mom! Mom! Mom!
Linda: Candace, you missed half the party!
Lawrence: (walking away) Triangular bubbles? How'd they ever do that?
Candace: That's okay, cause this is it-it-it!
Linda: This is what, Candace?
Candace: The day I finally win. The day I get what I've been after all summer long!
Linda: Oh, that.
Candace: Because today, I have this! (holds up the DVD)
Linda: What's that?
Candace: This? Oh, this is only...
Phineas: (over applause) Thank you, thank you, everyone!
Linda: Hold on, honey. I think Phineas is going to speak.
Phineas: (on stage) I just have to say, I'm a lucky guy. I mean, so far, this has been a rockin' great summer! I've sure had plenty of fun. But it's not about satisfying your personal desires. It's about all of you. Being surrounded by the best family (Linda and Lawrence hug) and the best friends (Buford and Baljeet tear up) anyone could ever hope to have. All the people I love, (Isabella sighs) and who love me right back. (Irving sighs) Today was a great day. The best day ever!
Candace: (looks at the DVD, then at Phineas; she starts bawling) WAAHH-HHHAHH! I can't do it! Not on his birthday! I mean, what kind of person am I? (smashes the DVD with the wrench)
Phineas: (walking up) Aw, Candace. You're a great person! Why, if I had a nickel for every time you did something nice for me... well, I wouldn't know what to do with that much money!
Candace: But I didn't even get you a...
Phineas: Wait a minute. (pointing at the wrench in Candace's hand) Is that... it is! A left-handed flange tuner! I've been looking for one of those forever!
Candace: You've been... huh?
Phineas: They're impossible to find! Custom-made for Danville's sewage repair, but they have a thousand uses! (takes the wrench) I love it! It's just what I've been wanting! (hugs Candace) Thank you, Candace!
Candace: (hugs Phineas) You're welcome.
Phineas: You're the best sister ever. (counter appears in the top-right of the screen, reading "$0.05")
Linda: All right, everybody. (next to a cake with a Phineas ornament on top) Who wants cake? (all the kids run up to her, shouting chaotically)
Buford: Buford wants cake! Buford wants cake! Me, me, me!
Baljeet: Me! I want the largest piece!
(Perry walks up to Candace and Phineas, and then chatters)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry. Some day, huh?
Candace: Yep, and I know what I'm gonna do tomorrow. (she and Phineas walk away)
Clown: Hello? Did somebody order a circus? (beat) Hello? I knew I should've gotten the down payment on the elephants.

End credits
(Clips: Candace yelling for Mom; spliced and tuned to sound like the theme song)
Candace: Mooooooommmm!!!!
Mom! MOOOMM! Mom, mom! Mom! Mom!
MOOOOMMMMM! Mooommmm! MOOOMMMMM!!! (instrumental)
Mom! Mommm! Mooommmm! Mom! Mom! MOOOMMMM!!
Mom, Mom, Mom! MOOMMMM!! (instrumental)
Mom, Mom, Mom! Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom!
Mom!! Mom, Mom!!! MOOOOMMMMM!!!!
Mom, Mom, Mom, MOOOMMMM!! Mom, Mom, Mom, MOOOMMMM!!
MOOoOoOoOOOOOOMMMmMMMMmMMMMMMMMM!!!!!!!!!
Candace: (over the Disney logo) Mom, Phineas and Ferb are digitally tuning my voice!



(Scene opens at the Danville Harbor Day Festival)
Lawrence: Oh, rapture! This is my favorite part of the Danville Harbor Day's festival! The annual shark reenactment. Let's checketh it out.
Linda: "Checketh it out?" Really?
Lawrence: I stand by my Old English. Oh, look, they're doing the song!
(Song: Shark of Danville Harbor)
Captain Squint: ♪ Won't you gather round and hear a tale ♪

♪ Of the shark of Danville harbor ♪
♪ Who terrorized our people, ♪
♪ Can you just imagine this? ♪
♪ If it's sharks you want to know about ♪
♪ You're bound to end up smarter ♪
♪ 'Cause though technically a vertebrate ♪
♪ They're cartilaginous ♪
♪ The monster came upon us ♪
♪ And its eyes were black as coal ♪
♪ His jaws so big that we could see ♪
♪ His molars and incisors ♪
♪ He came at us and of our bladders ♪
♪ We did lose control ♪
♪ Then he ate a politician ♪
♪ And a curriculum adviser ♪
♪ He cornered us in Miller's Cove ♪
♪ We thought that we were dead ♪
♪ We've never seen his like, remember: ♪
♪ This was way before TV ♪
♪ We lost control again, there were a long line for the head (Open up!) ♪
♪ But the woman folk banged pots and pans and drove him out to sea ♪
♪ Yes, the woman folk banged pots and pans and drove him out to sea! ♪
Lawrence: And that is why we celebrate Harbor Day every year with a reenactment. Here cometh the shark.
(The "shark" appears; it's just Buford and Baljeet wearing "SHA" and "ARK" shirts with a shark fin and tail)
Buford: Look at me, I'm a shark! I can poop in the ocean!
Baljeet: But you are not going to, right?
Buford: Keep pushing, dweeb.
Phineas: Wow. They really should put more effort into the shark. Ferb, I knoweth what we're going to doeth today!
Lawrence: Hey, whereth is Perry?
(Perry goes through the skirt of a woman's 1800s style dress and rows into his flooded lair)
Major Monogram: Happy Harbor Day, Agent P! In honor of the occasion, we've flooded your headquarters. Hope you like it.
Carl: Actually, our plumbing just backed up.
Major Monogram: Just trying to put a happy face on it, Carl. Doofenshmirtz has been spotted on a... boat. Go check it out. (Perry leaves)
(Back to Danville Harbor)
Candace: Brother, these Harbor Day festivals are so lame. I can't wait to see this year's lame-o replica of the great white shark of Danville Harbor!
Stacy: It's always so feeble.
Candace: Yeah. (she and Stacy laugh; she hears helicopters) What's that?
(the helicopters are seen transporting a giant metal shark)
Phineas: Okay, let 'er drop! (the shark splashes down near the small boat Phineas and Ferb are in, causing a huge wave that drenches only Candace)
Candace: Okay, now how did that only hit me?
Stacy: Look at that!
Phineas: (rowing up to the shark) Let's go, Ferb! We're going to give this year's Harbor Day's reenactment the best shark ever! (they enter the shark)
Candace: Rrrrr... Come on, Stacy. We've got a shark to bust!
(At another part of the harbor)
Captain Squint: So I says, "Keep your hands off my poop deck, then we'll keelhaul the scurvy!"
Candace: (running up with Stacy) Yo ho, Captain Kidd, we need your ship. My brothers are in that shark!
Captain Squint: 'Tis the same beast that swallowed my leg...
Candace: (pushing him up the gangplank) Yeah, yeah, that's fascinating. Tell me after we shove off!
Captain Squint: (while walking over the very long gangplank to his smaller boat) Ah, that shark's a mean one. Took me leg just to pick his teeth on. He drives alone in the carpool lane. He threw poor Timmy down the well. And he won't give up his seat for little old ladies on the bus!
Candace: (while pushing Captain Squint up the gangplank) Uh-huh, uh-huh. Yeah. Uh-huh. sure. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Oh, yeah. Uh-huh. Yeah, I know, he sounds like a bad guy.
Captain Squint: Oh, you think!
Phineas: Okay, Ferb. Let's see what this baby can do! (Phineas pilots the shark out to sea) Looks like everything's shark-shape! (moves away, revealing Ferb controlling the fins and tail using a mechanical bodysuit) Make a left... (the shark turns left) Let's get our cartilaginous vertebrate on!
(From underwater, Perry swims up to a boat but gets trapped in a crab cage. Doofenshmirtz dumps the crabs (and Perry) into the hold of his boat.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz on a crab boat! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (opens hole to hold) Perry the Platypus! (Perry chatters) So what am I doing out here? Well I'll tell you. One day, while I was perusing my collection of 19th-century almanacs, I learned that the leading cause of tooth decay is saltwater taffy! And that's why I invented the Saltwater Taffy-inator! Y-you can't see it from here; I built it on the bottom of the ocean where I have an unlimited supply of salt water for free. I'm going to make the sweetest, gooiest, stickiest saltwater taffy in the world!! In the world. Enough to give cavities to every kid in the Tri-State Area! Ha-HA-ha-ha-ha! (shuts opening) Now where's my wetsuit?
(On Captain Squint's boat, the Pea-quad)
Candace: Where are they? All I need is a metal shark and a mom to bust her by!
Captain Squint: That one's got some wind in her sails.
Stacy: You have no idea. So, did a shark really eat your leg?
Captain Squint: Arr, probably. But he definitely chewed on my arm. (shows Stacy a small mark on his arm)
Stacy: Uhh, that's just a birthmark.
Captain Squint: ...I'm tired of this conversation.
(the shark passes the boat)
Candace: Thar she blows!
Captain Squint: I see you, Mister Beast! (spins the ship's wheel)
Candace: Can't this tug go any faster?
Captain Squint: There be only one captain on this ship.
(Inside the shark; Phineas looks out a window in the shark's eye)
Phineas: Looks like the reenactment has started! Let's give 'em a run for their money, Ferb! (Ferb salutes; so does the shark) They're still on our tail! (the shark leaps out of the water and splashes down in front of the Pea-quad)
Captain Squint: He be toying with us.
Candace: Ayeee!!
Phineas: Cannonball, Ferb. (the shark leaps out of the sea)
Candace: Well at least we'll all get wet. (the shark splashes down, only soaking Candace; she shouts to the sky) Really? Really?? (an octopus lands on Captain Squint's face)
Captain Squint: Arr! It's the octopus that ate me pancreas!
Candace: (to the sky) Thank you.
Captain Squint: Get back here, beast! (the shark sends the Pea-quad flying with a tail flick)
Candace, Stacy, Captain Squint: Whoa! (the Pea-quad skips across the sea)
Phineas: Wow, six skips! (to Ferb) Nice going.
(On Doofenshmirtz's crab boat; Doofenshmirtz is now in a wetsuit with scuba gear)
Doofenshmirtz: Here we go. (rolls backwards off the stern but lands on a metal grate) Ow! Oh, okay, that hurt. All right, better just, uh... (prods the water with his spear gun) Okay, I'm good. (jumps off his boat and swims down to the Saltwater Taffy-inator; he pushes a button) Now I will activate my Saltwater Taffy-inator. (turns a handle; the -inator begins spinning taffy) At last! Now nothing can prevent me from promoting tooth decay! Ha-HA-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha... (fogs up his scuba mask) Aw, I fogged up my mask again! (clears his mask to reveal Perry in a wetsuit swimming towards him; Perry punches him backwards) Perry the Platypus? How did you get out? (Perry flashes back to the crabs forming a ladder, but Doofenshmirtz grabs him from behind) Ha! I grabbed you while you were flashing back to your escape! Hee-hee-hee... drbt! (Perry kicks him and starts swimming away)
(To the Pea-quad shark chase; Candace and Stacy are looking over the rail when a large fish hook with cheese appears above their heads)
Candace, Stacy: Yikes!
Captain Squint: (holding a fishing rod with the cheese hook) I've caught many a fish with this lure. (casts the hook at the shark, catching it) Take the pole and I'll man the wheel! (lets go of the rod, causing it to yank the two girls forward)
Candace, Stacy: Whoa!
Candace: Come on, Stacy, pull!
Captain Squint: ♪ She bought me coat and the mermaid brought my boots... ♪ HA-ha-ha-ha-ha!!! Tug on this, beast. (pulls a lever; the fishing line snaps, causing Candace and Stacy to fall back into the stern; Captain Squint wheels a cannon to the stern) Suppertime! (lights the cannon, causing a bolo made of rubber ducks to loop around the shark's tail) Bullseye!
Candace: Rubber ducks? Are you serious?!?
Captain Squint: Does a penguin fly?
Candace: No.
Captain Squint: Aw, now I'm tired of this conversation too! (leaves)
Stacy: The ducks are back!
Captain Squint: (emerges from the head holding a plunger attached to a rope) I'll harpoon the beast!
Candace: That's a plunger.
Captain Squint: I didn't buy this ship for its plumbing!
(Back at the Saltwater Taffy-inator; Perry and Doof's fight accidentally detaches the control panel, causing the mass of saltwater taffy to head towards them)
Doofenshmirtz: Yahhh! Swim for your life! (the taffy engulfs Perry and Doofenshmirtz and starts spinning them around)
(Back on the Pea-quad)
Captain Squint: Come to Papa, beast. Well, I-I ain't really a papa; I-I never had kids of my own, see, and... if I did they probably wouldn't be... sharks, but... you know what I mean! (the shark emerges at the stern) Ohhh... ohh!!
Stacy: Candace, he reaches!
(a loud chomp is heard as the shark swallows Captain Squint, leaving his boot on the stern; the shark swims away)
Stacy: We're gonna need a bigger captain.
(Inside the shark, the water drains as Captain Squint lies on the floor)
Phineas: Cheese and sausage?
Captain Squint: So this is what the inside of a shark looks like? I always thought it would be more... stomach-y.
(On the Pea-quad)
Stacy: I think maybe it's time we just call it quits.
Candace: (putting on Captain Squint's hat and wielding his harpoon) Stacy, I'm tired of this conversation!(lightning strikes behind them)
(At the -inator)
Doofenshmirtz: (trapped in the taffy) Ha-HA! I still have the upper hand! (the taffy spinner rotates, moving Perry above Doofenshmirtz) Well, actually you may at this particular mo... (the taffy squishes them together, then separates them again) Chew first, Perry the Plat... ahhh!!
(On the Pea-quad)
Candace: Hoist the mainsail! (Stacy does so) Swab the poop deck! (Stacy does so) Watch that jib, sailor. (the jib knocks Stacy's hat off) Now take the helm! (puts Stacy at the wheel and rides a rope onto the bowsprit) I've got a date with destiny, and it ain't gonna end with a kiss! (spots the shark through a spyglass) You've vexed me for too long. Too long! Full speed ahead, Stacy; get me in close!
Stacy: Aye aye, Candace!
Candace: Captain!
Stacy: Captain! (aside) Yikes, what is it about that hat?
Candace: From Danville Harbor I stab at thee; for busting's sake I spit my last spit at thee! (spits onto the plunger's bell) Unh! (hurls the plunger at the shark's fin, where it sticks) Make for shore, Stacy! We've got him! (the ship turns for shore, hauling the shark with it)
(Inside the shark)
Phineas: (looking through a window in the shark) Say, whoever's on that boat has the story wrong. They're supposed to drive us out to sea, not drag us into shore! Looks like we're gonna need a bigger shark. (pulls a handle, making the shark grow in size; the grown shark starts dragging the Pea-quad out to sea)
(At the -inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Now I wish I'd made that "OFF" button more accessible from the taffy itself. (sighs; he and Perry are completely trapped in the taffy) I wonder how this is affecting the surface water.
(On the surface, the water has grown rough as the shark pulls the Pea-quad out to sea)
Candace: Is that the best you've got?
Stacy: (emerging from the head with a handful of plungers) I found more harpoons! And I'm gonna pretend these have never been used!
Candace: Load the cannon! (Stacy loads all the plungers into the cannon) Stand clear! (Candace lights the cannon, which fires; however, a rope loops around Candace's ankle and pulls her off the ship)
Stacy: (clicks her tongue) Yep.
Candace: (roped to the shark; screams and bangs on the shark) I know you be in there!
Captain Squint: (banging on the inside wall with a large fishhook) I'm-a get this outta here, boys.
Phineas: We need more power, Ferb! (Ferb lashes the shark's tail rapidly)
Candace: Hard to starboard, Stacy! (Stacy turns the wheel port, turning the ship and shark around) Okay, that's port, but whatever!
(At Danville Harbor; the gatherers are watching a puppet show of a man stabbing a harpoon at a shark)
Puppet man: Arr! Arr!
Lawrence: You know, it's such a shame the reenactment can't be this exciting.
(a giant wave crashes over Danville Harbor, depositing the shark on the beach; the mouth opens and Captain Squint jumps out)
Captain Squint: A-ha-ha-ha! Free at last! Thanks for me new leg, boys! (his leg fires a rocket engine and Captain Squint flies away)
Candace: Mom! Mom! Look, Mom!
(back at the taffy, one of the spinners breaks, launching the taffy)
Candace: Look, Mom! Look at the shark!
(The taffy sticks to the shark and yanks it back, dropping Candace on the beach next to her brothers)
Candace: Mom!!
Linda: What? (removes her wet bonnet and two starfish covering her eyes) Oh, that? (sees Buford and Baljeet in their "shark" costume) They get cheesier every year.
Buford: ROAR!! (starts shaking Baljeet)
Baljeet: You cannot attack me; I am the tail!
Buford: (yanks up Baljeet by the tail) Shark wedgie!
Candace: (walks up to them) That's not what I meant! (takes her hat off)
Linda: It never is, honey. (at the kids) Who wants blood pudding?
Phineas, Buford, Baljeet: Me!
(The kids follow Linda offscreen)
(Back at the taffy)
Doofenshmirtz: You know, this much I could've predicted, but I'm having a hard time explaining the giant metal shark. (sighs as the shark is pulled towards them by the taffy) Well, at least we'll go together, Perry the Platypus. (Perry ejects from his wetsuit through the scuba helmet and swims away) Oh sure, I reach out to you and then you use the emergency face plate ejector thing. (the shark crashes into Doofenshmirtz, the taffy, and the -inator, creating a cloud of bubbles)
(On the surface, a giant bubble pops:)
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Plat-
(A second bubble rises and pops:)
Doofenshmirtz: -ypus!



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Stacy: (Walks out the sliding door) Hey Candace, what're you doing out here?
Candace: Hey Stacy. (Blows out fire) I've got a lot of things to do today, so I figured I'd bust Phineas and Ferb early. You know, just to get it off my plate.
Stacy: How long have you been out here?
Candace: Since last night.
Stacy: Yeah well... who are those guys?
Candace: I don't know... who are you guys?
Random Guy: I thought you were waiting in line for concert tickets.
Candace: This is my backyard!
Random Guy: There's always some kind of concert going on back here, I just thou--
Candace: Get out of my yard!
Random Guy: Not a morning person.
Stacy: So, what's this big thing you wanted to do?
Candace: Well, remember when Jeremy made that romantic dinner for me?
Stacy: Candace, he microwaved you a pizza.
Candace: Yeah, a pizza for two.
Stacy: Ah, yes.
Candace: So I want to reciprocate and make him a romantic dinner.
Stacy: Are you sure? Candace, I don't know a lot about cooking.
Candace: Well, neither do I, but I figure we'll use what you know and what I know and between the two of us we can figure it out right?
Stacy: Hm, why not? Now where's the cooking room?
Candace: It's in the kitchen, that's where we keep all the cooking tools.

(The ground rumbles, and a spaceship emerges from the ground)
Phineas: Hey Candace! We're going to the moon!
Candace: The moon? Wait a minute, why are you going to the moon? Kind of a step backwards considering you've already been to Mars.
Phineas: Do you remember that old nursery rhyme The Cat and the Fiddle?
Candace: Vaguely.
Phineas: Apparently, there was a last verse that was lost to history, until Ferb and I found it in the Dead Sea. It's a little wet and salty, but I'll read it. "Hey diddle diddle, the cat and the fiddle, the cow jumped over the moon. Due to the moon’s low gravity, the moon jumping cows' milk produced the best tasting ice cream ever!" That last verse didn't rhyme, so they left it out of most versions. Ferb and I are going to the moon to see if it's true!
Candace: Don't you need some cows for that?
Phineas: We do indeed.
(Ferb uses a Cow Cup. He holds it upside-down)
Cow Cup: (moos) Cows, get on the ship.
Candace: Okay, (Scoffs) that's the dumbest thing I --
(Candace dives out of the way as cows rush on board the space ship)
Candace: Phineas and Ferb, I'm going to count backwards from 10, and when I'm done, you better be down here so I can bust you! (The ramp starts retracting) 10...9...8...
Baljeet: Oh! Let us get to our stations.
Candace: 5...4...3...2...
(Spaceship blasts off and Candace is covered in black)
Candace: ...1.
Phineas: (While floating) Hey, where's Perry?

(Scene switches to Perry, who knocks on a panel near the fireplace. The panel opens, and Perry enters his lair)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P. Our sources tell us that Doof is up to something. We need you to infiltrate Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc. and have a little look see. To make it easier for you to get in, we have one of our operatives installing Central Access Threshold, or, CAT door. So, let's get out there and, good luck!
(Perry salutes and leaves)
Carl: So now I'm an operative?
Major Monogram: We're still not paying you, Carl.

(Scene switches back to Phineas and Ferb; spaceship is landing on the moon)
Phineas: Remember everyone, (The spaceship door opens) the moon's gravity is 83.3% less than Earth.
Buford: So what?
Phineas: So what? So let's bounce! (Jumps off the spaceship) Whee!
Baljeet: (Hung upside down by Buford) No, No, Buford! Please do not drop me I-- (Buford lets go) Oh! Oooh, well this is not so bad.
Buford: Yeah? (Jumps off the spaceship) Give it a second.
(Crashing noise, as Buford lands on Baljeet)
Baljeet: Oh! How is it possible that you are heavier on the moon?

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
(Perry enters through the CAT, and gets caught in a trap)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus. (Pause) What? Oh yes, the green? (Chuckles) I can explain.
(Flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: It started two days ago when I was watering my plants. I noticed a beautiful garden on my neighbor's balcony. Oooh, I got so jealous. So the guy at the store told me—among other things—that my plants wouldn't grow because I didn't have a green thumb. A-and I should stop bothering with these types of plant questions and that my mere presence in the store was destroying his plants. So I got a big bucket of green paint, and I poured it on myself. Then I was green everywhere, except strangely my thumbs, I think it was the way I was holding the bucket.
(Flashback ends)
Doofenshmirtz: Anyhoo, with another great idea, I created the Moisture Suck-Inator! See? See? I don't know why I built it here when I was going to use it on the balcony... That wasn't-- anyhoo, this device will suck all the moisture out of my neighbor's plants, which will turn them brown, and make my plants look greener by comparison. And I will finally have a green thumb! You know not actually—metaphorically! I’ll have a gre--
(Pause)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh! (Smacks his head) It's a metaphor! (Sighs) And I wasted all that money on green paint.

(Scene switches back to the moon. Phineas is putting air into an inflatable farm)
Phineas: Okay, nice job everyone! Now the cows have a place to live.
Baljeet: But what will the cows eat?
Phineas: Ah, not to worry. After scientists discovered the existence of frozen water on the moon, Ferb and I began shooting seeds up here. Then we shot up hundreds of these pocket warmers to melt the ice in the ground.
Baljeet: But Phineas, there's no oxygen here!
Phineas: That's alright, the grass will create its own oxygen through photosynthesis!
Baljeet: Yes, but you would still need so-- (Grass shoots up)—Oooh, or not.
Phineas: We got our grass, Ferb. Let's get the herd fed.
(Ferb uses cow cup)
Cow Cup: (moos) Cows, lunchtime.
(The cows float out of the spaceship onto the grass. They start mooing as they eat)
(Scene switches to Candace and Stacy)
Candace: Oh. My gosh. Stacy. Your cooking hat looks so cute!
Stacy: Yours too!
Irving: (From outside) Mission control to Moon Farm.
Candace: What's that?
Irving: Come in Moon Farm.
Phineas: (Through radio) This is Moon Farm, come back.
Irving: Oh, this is mission control. Your transmission's a little garbled, but still understandable, over!
Candace: Hey! (Marches over) What do you think you're doing?
Phineas: Is that Candace?
Irving: Yes, she was just about to--
Candace: Just give me that! (Snatches the microphone) Phineas, you are so busted!
Phineas: Oh, hi, Candace. How's the cooking for Jeremy going?
Stacy: Hey ask him what we should cook!
Phineas: Roger that, Stacy. Ferb suggests lamb cobbler on account of Jeremy's British background.
Candace: We don't have that recipe.
Phineas: That's okay, Ferb knows it by heart! You and Stacy go in the kitchen and we'll relay the recipe step by step through mission control.
Candace: Alright. But I'm still busting you! I'm still busting them.
Phineas: Ferb says the first thing you'll need is a big bowl, over.
Irving: Roger, mission control out. (Pause) A big bow? Hm, well I guess that'll make it look pretty.

(Scene switches back to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc. Doofenshmirtz is dragging the Moisture-suck-inator to the balcony)
Doofenshmirtz: (Groans) I got it. Man, why didn't I put wheels on this thing?
(Continues pushing)
Doofenshmirtz: There. (Cracks back) I'll just aim it... there perfect. Now, you will witness the dehydrating effects of my Moisture-Suck-Inator on my neighbor's garden! And (Steps on switch) Fire!
(Beam of green light hits his neighbor's garden)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, that doesn't seem to be working. Let me try it on something else. Hmm... (Drags the Moisture-Suck-Inator to Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: This is going to hurt you more than it'll hurt me, Perry the Platypus. Fire!
(Perry is dehydrated; opens and closes his dry mouth)
Doofenshmirtz: (Laughs) Oh look at you, you're Pruny the Dehydra-pus. (Pause) Hm.
(Perry continues opening and closing his dry mouth)
Doofenshmirtz: I wonder why it didn't do that to the neighbor's plants. Maybe it's too far away- maybe- argh. (Grinding noise) I gotta try it again. I'm not going to let that guy make me look like a nincomp--
(Doofenshmirtz is targeted by the Moisture Suck-Inator)
Doofenshmirtz: --Oh poop. (Green beam hits him)
(Doofenshmirtz and Perry open and close their dry mouths back and forth)
Doofenshmirtz: I'm going to go get a glass of water. (Pause) You want one Perry the Platypus?

(Scene switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher household)
Stacy: This doesn't seem right Candace. I mean, four eggs bleated, a big bow, one pound of lamp—I mean that's not even food.
Candace: Trust me Stacy, as annoying as Phineas and Ferb are, they're usually right.
Irving: Phineas and Ferb say—
Candace: Nu- Not in the house (Footsteps)
Irving: Phineas and Ferb say, three cups of self-righteous flowers.
Stacy: You see? That's what I'm talking about; self-righteous flowers? What are self-righteous flowers?
Candace: Well roses always seemed stuck up to me.
Stacy: (Pause) Okay, so let's go pick some roses.
(Scene switches to the moon)
Buford: Moon!
Cow: (Moos)
Buford: Moo-na. Two syllables cow, two. Moo-na.
Cow: (moos)
Buford: Man, these cows are dumb.

(Scene switch: Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, that's much better. I was parched, how about you? We should do this more often, this was nice. Now if you excuse me, I'm going to jet-pack over to my neighbor's balcony and see what's going on with those plants. (jet-pack spurts fire, burning clothes) Right after I change my pants.
(Scene switch: Candace and Stacy)
Stacy: So what's next, Irving?
Irving: Phineas and Ferb say, bake at 350 for one hour. Serves two. Speaking of serves two, I was thinking of, you know, after you girls are done here maybe we could-- (Door closes on him)—Okay, that's golden, we'll just put a pin in it for now.
Candace: Stacy, what are we going to do? Jeremy will be here in five minutes!
Stacy: Relax Candace, it's simple math. Instead of 350 for one hour, we'll just cook this for five minutes at... (punches buttons on a calculator) ...9000 degrees. (Pause) What could go wrong?
(Scene switch: moon.)
Phineas: Okay everyone, ice cream's ready. Let's dig in. (Licks ice cream) Mmm. This is the best ice cream I've ever had!
(Song: Moon Farm)
♪ Oh, dat's right! ♪
♪ Houston, we've got a situation ♪
♪ Better stan' by de phone! ♪
♪ It's a brand new lunar taste sensation ♪
♪ Served on a waffle cone! ♪
♪ We got chocolate, vanilla ♪
♪ But we don't have rocky road! ♪
♪ It's not that we don' like it! ♪
♪ We left de marshmallows at home ♪
♪ I blame Baljeet! ♪
Baljeet: Hey! What do you mean you blame Baljeet?
Male Voice: Well, it was clearly your responsibility.
Baljeet: Where are you getting your information from, disembodied reggae space voice?
Male Voice: Hey, I have a name you know.
Baljeet: Oh yeah? What is it?
Male Voice: Well, it's disembodied reggae space voice, but that's just a coincidence; you didn't know that!
Baljeet: Oh, look who's sensitive! Besides, Buford could have brought the marshmallows.
Buford: Hey, leave me out of this!
Phineas: Guys, guys, we have limited time here! Baljeet, could you please stop arguing with the soundtrack?
Baljeet: He started it.

(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz)
(jet-pack landing)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey you, I got a question for you. How do you get your plants—What? Plastic! (pokes plastic man)
Man: Something I can help you with, rocket man?
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah! What's with all the plastic plants? And the plastic man?
Man: I like plastic.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh so you're just trying to make me look like a fool. Well I don't need you-- (accidentally turns on jet-pack) Ow Ow Ow Ow Ow! I’ll just take the stairs.

(Scene switches to Candace and Stacy)
Candace: I don't know Stacy, I got a bad feeling about this. What am I going to do if it isn't even edible?
Stacy: Well, technically it is English food.
Candace: Well, here goes. (opens pot, gasps) Lamb cobbler! And it's beautiful!
Stacy: How could that be? We didn't even put lamb in it.
(Backyard)
(Spaceship lands)
Candace: Phineas and Ferb, what's going on out here?
Phineas: Hi Candace, we brought you some moon cow ice cream!
Candace: I don't care if you brought me ice cream from the moon. When Mom sees this spaceship in the yard, you two'll be soooo busted!
(Spaceship is accidentally launched by a cow)
Phineas: Huh. So how do you think our cows will do up on the moon?
Ferb: Well, photosynthesis will start creating oxygen and eventually an atmosphere. Our bovine friends will be fine.
Phineas: Cool. We know where to go for ice cream.

(Scene switches to Perry, who pushes the Moisturesuck-inator off the roof, causing a green beam to be shot at Candace's lamb cobbler)
Candace: (Opening pot, gasps) It's all dried out!
Jeremy: Hey, everybody!
Candace: Jeremy! I—uh—you're here!
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. It's really nice of you to make something for me. I can't wait to see what you've come up with.
(Phineas comes up and looks at Candace's ruined lamb cobbler, beckoning Ferb over.)
Candace: Oh—uh—yeah...
Jeremy: I'll bet it's great.
(Ferb takes the lamb cobbler from behind Candace. Phineas comes up and hands Candace the tub of ice cream without her knowing.)
Candace: Um... here's the thing. It's uh... I—I just don't know if you'll like it.
Jeremy: Ooh, ice cream.
Candace: What? (Phineas gives a thumbs up) Oh, yeah. Ice cream for two.

(Scene switches to Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh... Perry the Platypus? (Chuckles nervously) Yeah, I'm over here. Yeah I uh... I forgot my keys so I thought I— you know, just fit through the uh... (Perry opens door) Oh good, you're going to go get (Perry hangs a "do not disturb sign" on him) Wait, what's that? That better not be a "Do not disturb" sign. CURSE YOU, PERRY THE PLATYPUS!!

End Credits
Phineas: This is the best ice cream I've ever had!
(Song: Moon Farm)
♪ Oh, dat's right! ♪
♪ Houston, we've got a situation ♪
♪ Better stan' by de phone! ♪
♪ It's a brand new lunar taste sensation ♪
♪ Served on a waffle cone! ♪
♪ We got chocolate, vanilla ♪
♪ But we don't have rocky road! ♪
♪ It's not that we don' like it! ♪
♪ We left de marshmallows at home ♪
♪ I blame Baljeet! ♪
Baljeet: Hey! I thought we discussed this earlier.
Singer: It's in de lyrics, mon.



(Scene opens up showing Phineas and Ferb sitting under a tree)
Linda: Hey boys, want some fat-free whole-grain granola bars? They're still warm from the oven.
Phineas: Whole-grain and fat-free? (He and Ferb take a granola bar) You know us so well.
Linda: (Walks off) Yes, yes I do.
(Phineas and Ferb eat their granola bars)
Phineas: You know, Mom's always doing nice things for us. I think it's time we did something nice for Mom! Let's see... We could—No...
(Quiz show music plays)
Phineas: Or—Uh uh.
(Ferb gasps)
Phineas: Huh...
(He and Ferb repeatedly gasp. They stop and the quiz show music plays again slowly)
Isabella: Hey, Phineas! Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: We're trying to think of a nice thing we can do for Mom. Any ideas?
Isabella: You can clean up the whole house for her!
Baljeet: Or, you can get a classic wooden slide rule from Analog Emporium.
Buford: How do I know what adults like? What am I, a computer?
Phineas: That's it! I know what we're gonna do today. We're gonna make a super computer!
Buford: What? Your Mom wants a super computer? What is she? Some kind of nerd?
Phineas: No, we're gonna ask the computer what to do for Mom.
Baljeet: Slide rule! I gave it to you on a silver platter!
(Scene shifts to the interior of the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Linda: Okay, I'm going out. (Pulls out a coupon) I've got a coupon for a free hair styling from this new salon. I'm gonna freshen up my look. Granola bars are in the kitchen! (walks away)
Candace: Ugh. Maybe I'll feed mine to Perry. Hey, where is Perry?

(Outside, Perry puts on his fedora, pulls on a flower, and enters an open hole. Inside the lair, the screen turns on)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. The entire Tri-State Area's becoming riddled with holes. Also, numerous light beams have been shot from Doofenshmirtz's building. Either he's having some sort of a rave, or he's the one behind all those holes. Investigate at once! (Salutes) Good luck, Agent P!
(Perry salutes back and takes off on his jet-pack)
(Song: Buildin' a Supercomputer)
♪ We're buildin' a supercomputer in the backyard ♪
♪ And singing about it in G♪
♪ We worked up the plans so it can't be that hard ♪
♪ To make a trillion-terabyte memory ♪
♪ Our song is synchronic, not the least bit ironic ♪
♪ What you hear is exactly what you see ♪
♪ We're buildin' a supercomputer ♪
♪ And singing just what we're doin' ♪
♪ Which is buildin' a supercomputer ♪
♪ And over-explainin' just what you're viewin' ♪
♪ All the panels are screwed in ♪
♪ As our song is concludin' ♪
♪ What you hear is exactly what you see ♪
Supercomputer: And that's the story of how you made me.
Isabella: He's cute!

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc., a ray fires, and an item comes back with the ray. This continues until Perry arrives.)
Doofenshmirtz: (Repeatedly firing his ray) That's not it... That's not it...
(Perry enters through a panel on the wall and hides)
Doofenshmirtz: That's not it... (Picks up an item) That is not it.
(Perry straightens his fedora, and then runs)
Doofenshmirtz: That's not it.
(Perry is covered with cement and is shaped into a brick. The cement quickly dries as Perry tries to escape)
Doofenshmirtz: (Laughs) Welcome, Perry the Platypus. How do you like your trap? That's super quick drying cement. See? (Knocks on the cement) Solid as a, uh... I dunno, some rock-like substance. Cement, maybe! Now, with you safely trapped, I introduce you to the Metal-Unearth-inator! (The Metal-Unearth-inator fires, and a can comes back)

(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Phineas: All right, gang, It's ready to go. We just need to perform an initial scan of the Tri-State Area so it has enough data to work with.
(The supercomputer's antenna rises, and starts its initial scan)
Supercomputer: Scanning the Tri-State-Area.
(In the scrap yard)
Boy: Between that and the random laser drills, this is like the second best mid-day scrapyard rave ever!
(Inside a hospital)
Doctor: (Preparing to activate a CT scanner) Hold still and... (The red scan light flashes, showing her skeleton. She pulls out her cell phone) Hello, Hospital Workers Union.

(The scan light flashes at Norm)
Norm: Get out of my mind!

(Back at the backyard)
Supercomputer: Gathering data from all objects and habitants. Computing all logical outcome of all events. (Finishes scanning, bell dings) Done.
Phineas: Okay, computer. Are you ready to answer any question?
Supercomputer: Yes, my data is complete. My logic, infallible.
(Phineas and Ferb laugh)
Phineas: What's 2 + 2?
Supercomputer: 4. Perhaps you should just count on your fingers.
Phineas: Sorry. What's the square root of 72,361?
Supercomputer: 269. Try something more unusual.
Isabella: What are the names the girls in my Fireside Girls troop?
Supercomputer: Gretchen, Adyson, Holly, Katie, Milly, and Ginger.
Isabella: Wow, he's good!
Baljeet: On a multi-valve engine with variable timing, how can I isolate an exhaust valve leak at the stem seal without removing the can shaft?
Supercomputer: Coat the engine with tomato paste and the leak will reveal itself.
(Baljeet elbows Buford)
Buford: He's right! Uh, what size pants do I wear?
Supercomputer: Boys, husky, extra large.
(Buford elbows Baljeet)
Baljeet: He's right!
Buford: Impressive! (Thumbs up)
Phineas: Well, you seem to be working perfectly so, computer, what is the nicest thing we can do for Mom today?
Supercomputer: Computing... (Ding) Done. Get a gallon of industrial marking dye and a leaf blower. Tie balloons onto them. Then, go to the top of Danville Hill, and at 2:37 p.m., release them into the wind.
Phineas: Really?
Supercomputer: Nothing would make your mother happier today.
(Baljeet has a glum face)
Baljeet: You turned that slide rule for this?
Phineas: I don't know, Baljeet. From what we seen so far, I think a little blind faith is called for.
Baljeet: You know nothing about women.
Buford: Dude, it's over.
(Candace walks out of the sliding door)
Candace: Okay, there must be something bustable going on around here. (Notices the super computer. She drops her phone) What...is..that?
Supercomputer: I am a super computer. I can answer any question that you can possibly ask.
Candace: Did my brothers make you?
Supercomputer: Yes. Yes, they did.
Candace: Okay. So, let me think of a question... Hmm... How many states in the United States?
Supercomputer: 50.
Candace: What goes on top of pancakes?
Supercomputer: Butter and syrup.
Candace: How do you pronounce the "J" in "Jalapeño"?
Supercomputer: It makes the "H" sound.
Candace: (Hisses) I knew that. How many fingers behind my back?
Supercomputer: Two.
Candace: Okay, that's just freaky. And...bustable! All I gotta do is... (Pause) But it never works! No matter what I try, whatever the boys do just disappears before Mom looks! If only there was some way to guarantee Mom would see what the boys done? (Looks at the supercomputer) Ee-ee-ee-ee-ee-ee-ee-ee-ee-ee...

(In an alleyway, a dog puts down a bone. A ray fires and the dog runs off. The item caught by the ray drops on Doofenshmirtz's balcony.)
Doofenshmirtz: What? Another one? Why are there so many helmets buried in the Tri-State Area? (Tosses it off) Ah, onto the pile you go.
(The helmet lands on a pile of old, dirty stuff. The camera zooms out, showing Perry trapped)
Doofenshmirtz: So, Perry the Platypus, hope you didn't come here because of the holes, because the Metal-Unearth-inator is not even my final plan. May I present to you my real plan? The All-Purpose-inator! You heard of a man's man? Well, this is an inator's inator. (His hand is seen on the control panel) It does everything! (Takes his hand off the control panel) Of course, once I activate it, it will make all my inators obsolete, but, uh... I guess that's progress. Unfortunately, I ran into a little snag...
(Flashback. Doofenshmirtz is seen finishing the All-Purpose-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: After putting all the final touches on my All-Purpose-inator, I took a step back to admire my handiwork. Victory was finally within my grasp.
(Flashback Doofenshmirtz cackles)
Doofenshmirtz: All I needed to do is turn the thing on. (Flashback Doofenshmirtz pulls out a key) Then fate made a cruel joke. (Flashback Doofenshmirtz slips on green paint. The key falls off the balcony) The ignition key fell of my balcony!
Flashback Doofenshmirtz: Nooooooo!!!!! (With binoculars, he spots a gopher take the key and run into its hole)
Doofenshmirtz: I could tell he was laughing. You know, that way gophers do. And there's no way I was going to go all the way down there to get the key. I've got a schedule to keep.
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: So, I decided to build the Metal-Unearth-inator to track down and dig up the key so I can fire up my All-Purpose-inator...
(At this point, the camera shows that Perry is playing a game of solitaire on the cement block.)
...so I can take over the Tri-State Area. Somehow. You know, you can put the red king on... (groaning) Hey; you're not even listening.

(Back at the backyard, Candace is talking to the supercomputer.)
Candace: But then, when I bring Mom into the backyard, it's gone and Mom never sees it. So here's my question, Mr. Supercomputer, how can I get my Mom to see what my brothers have done?
Supercomputer: Elementary. You must build a device that makes your Mom see what your brothers have done.
Candace: What kind of device?
Supercomputer: Follow my instructions to the letter and when you have finished, I am 100% certain that your Mom will see what your brothers have done.
Candace: Okay. Where do I start? (pulls out a notepad and a pencil)
Supercomputer: (while Candace is writing) You are going to need a toaster, a number two screwdriver, some electrical tape...

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc., the ray from the Metal-Unearth-inator keeps on retrieving helmets.)
Doofenshmirtz: Helmet, helmet, another helmet. What happened here?
(A chisel has fallen onto the balcony)
A chisel? (picks it up) Well, it's no key but at least we're getting closer in size. (tosses it over his shoulder)
(The chisel bounces off the pile of metal items and hits the cement block with a clang. A second later, the Metal-Unearth-inator retrieves...)
A hammer? Why would someone bury a hammer? Well, onto the pile you go. (tosses the hammer)
(The hammer lands directly onto the chisel, which enables Perry to escape from the cement block trap. He then stops to take a look at the pile.)
Doofenshmirtz: I'm closing in on the key. I can feel it. (gasps) Perry the Platypus, how did you get out?
(Camera pans to Perry, who's wearing a Roman solder's helmet and also holding a flail, which he twirls around for a few seconds.)
Doofenshmirtz: (gasps again) Well, two can play at that game.
(He reaches into the pile and then is seen with a radio on his head and holding a ladle and a fan in his hands.)
Doofenshmirtz: (chuckles; awkward silence) Uh, wait a second. Hold on. (rummages in the pile) Not this, not this. There was a whole bunch of 'em just a couple of minutes ago. A-ha! Jackpot!
(He's now seen wearing a viking helmet with a sword and shield in his hands.)
Doofenshmirtz: Now, Perry the Platypus, meet your doom. (screams)
(A flail and sword fight then starts between Doofenshmirtz and Perry.)

(Phineas, Ferb, and their friends--with the exception of Baljeet as Buford's carrying him--are now hiking up Danville Hill. A bunch of balloons have been tied to a container of industrial orange marker dye and a leaf blower.)
Phineas: Keep up, Buford, it's almost 2:37.
Buford: Hey, I don't have balloons to lighten my load.
Baljeet: I would have walked.
All: Three, two, one... (Phineas and Ferb releases the items into the air) Liftoff!
Phineas: There they go. Industrial orange marker dye and a leaf blower. Guaranteed happiness for Mom. Somehow. Let's follow and see what happens.
(The kids then run down the hill to do just that.)
Phineas: This way, everybody.
(They jump over a fence, which Baljeet trips over.)
Baljeet: Sure, now you put me down.

(In the backyard, Candace has finished some kind of contraption.)
Candace: There, finished. Did I put it together right?
Supercomputer: You built it perfectly, Candace. Your Mom will definitely see what the boys have done. And you finished it just in time, because in two seconds your Mom is going to pull up.
(car honks)
Candace: Wow! You're right about everything! (runs off) I can't lose! (to Linda) Mom! Mom! Mom! Mom! Mom! Mom! Mom! Mom! Mo...
(Candace trails off as she opens the driver's side door,... revealing Linda's bad hair-do.) Uh....
Linda: I'm having a bad day.
Candace: Uh, never mind. Come on, come on, come on. (pushes Linda towards the backyard)

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc., the flail and sword fight continues. Doofenshmirtz finally gets the upper hand when he disarms Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: So, no so tough without your mace. (Perry glares at him) Now, I have the upper hand. (Perry takes off the helmet) Prepare to meet your doom... (He holds up the shield after Perry throws it at him.) You throw your helmet at me? That's so lame, Perry the... (Perry starts throwing helmets at him.) Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow!
(Doofenshmirtz "accidentally" activates the Metal-Unearth-inator and the ray reaches the backyard of the Flynn-Fletcher home.)
(In the backyard)
Supercomputer: Precisely on schedule.
(The ray picks it... and a gopher... up from the ground.)
Supercomputer: Hello gopher! (the wiring detaches from it)
(The gopher, holding a key, looks down with surprise.)
Candace: (pushes Linda into the backyard with eyes closed) It's over here! It's over here! See?
(Just as Candace opens her eyes, the balloons carrying the items floats into the backyard.)
Phineas: Hi, Candace!
Linda: You know, Candace (turns around) most days, this is just a little disturbing. But today, with the free coupon (camera pans up) and this whole awful thing with my hair...
(The camera shows the supercomputer still in the ray's grasp.)
Supercomputer: And the gopher lets go now.
(The gopher looses its grip on the key, and bumps off the container, which causes the orange marketing dye to pour out. Luckily, the gopher catches hold of the pull string on the leafblower. The little critter then goes for a wild ride after it starts.)
Linda: (with eyes closed) If only I had...
(The orange dye falls onto her hair then the leafblower arrives to blow dry it.)
Linda: (groans)
(The toaster gives a ding! and a hand mirror pops out of it.)
Linda: (opens her eyes; looks in the hand mirror) Huh?
(Sure enough, Linda's hair is back to normal, complete with her headband.)
Linda: My hair looks so...cute! I guess it just needed some time to settle. (walks away)
Candace: But, but, but, buuuuuu...
Linda: It's so great when something nice happens to you, especially when you weren't expecting it. (exits)
Candace: What just happened?
Phineas: We did something nice for Mom. We fixed her bad hairdo. Apparently.
Candace: You did that?
Phineas: Yup.
Candace: You... did that?
Phineas: That's right. With a little supercomputer help.
Candace: So, when Mom looked in the mirror on that thing I built, she saw what you had done?
Phineas: That's right.
Ferb: And by the way, nice use of the accordion arm.
Candace: Oh! I hate computers! (exits)
Phineas: Hey, where'd the computer go?

(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
(Metal-Earth-inator beeping)
Doofenshmirtz: Ooh! The key detection alarm! I forgot I installed that. (tosses the sword and shield) Here it comes,...
(The shield lands on the floor and the sword lands straight up in it) 
...here it comes, here it comes. (pause) Wait!
Supercomputer: I knew this was going to happen.
Doofemshmirtz: Uh-oh.
(The Metal-Earth-inator retrieves the supercomputer at the same time Perry's leaving the building on his jet-pack. A second later, there's an explosion.)
Well, at least I found the key to the...
(A second explosion occurs, blowing off the retractable roof.)
Nice! Curse you, Perry the...
(The roof lands lopsidedly onto the building.)
(groans) Why does everything explode so easily?
(And cue the third explosion)
Yeah, I knew that was gonna happen.



(Scene opens at the Danville Zoo)
Reynolds: Hello, Tri-State Area. This is Al Reynolds reporting from the Danville Zoo. I'm here with Tykera Kwok and the zoo's latest acquisition. (at Tykera) Tykera, what is this thing? It looks like a beaver-duck.
Tykera: No, this is a platypus.

(Scene shifts to the living room at the Flynn-Fletcher home where Ferb, Phineas, and Perry are watching the news report.)
Reynolds: (on TV) A platypus?
Phineas: Hey, he looks like you, Perry.
Tykera: (on TV) That's right.
Phineas: Of course, he doesn't look nearly as smart.
(Perry chatters)

(Back at the Danville Zoo, where the interview continues.)
Reynolds: Well, what does it do?
Tykera: Not much. He does like sandwiches though.
(She holds out a sandwich, which the zoo platypus eats.)
Reynolds: (chuckles) So, got anything for the hundreds and thousands of people about to change the channel on me might find remotely interesting?
(Camera gives an up-close look of the zoo platypus.)
Tykera: Well, over here we've some pelicans and a baby rhino.
(Reynolds and Tykera walk away and a second later, the zoo platypus sniffs the air. Camera pans to the where to the semi-truck for Foley Freight is parked.)
Delivery Man 1: What's that smell?
Delivery Man 2: That's my sandwich. I left it back at the truck.
(After the delivery men walk away carrying a crate, the zoo platypus is headed towards the smell.)
Delivery Man 1: No, I mean that other smell.
Delivery Man 2: Oh, that's you.
Delivery Man 1: Oh yeah, right.
(The zoo platypus, now inside the back of the truck, eats the entire sandwich.)

(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher home, then back to the living room where Perry's the only there.)
(phone ringing)
Candace: Hi, Mom.
Linda: Hi, Candace.
(On a street in Danville)
Linda: (on her cell phone) I'm doing the shopping, do you need anything?
Candace: (via cell phone) No, I'm good.
Linda: The boys said they'd have fun at home so go out and do something instead of waiting around for Jeremy to call.
(The following scene switches between the Flynn-Fletchers' and the Johnsons' respective homes)
Candace: I do stuff! Uh-oh, call waiting. Bye! (presses a button) Hi, Jeremy.
Jeremy: I just called to let you know I'll be at the big pet wash at the park today.
Candace: Pet wash?
Jeremy: Yeah. Instead of cars, we wash pets for charity. You know, you can really...
Candace: Wait. Hang on, Jeremy. (at Perry) Okay, eww! Off the couch, go on. Get out of here.
(Perry jumps off the couch)
Candace: You heard me. Hit the road, meat brick.
(Perry leaves the living room)
Candace: (at Jeremy) You were saying?
Jeremy: I was saying you can really tell a lot about a person by the way they treat animals.
Candace: True.
Jeremy: Hey, why don't you bring Perry to the park and we can wash him together? Sound like fun?
Candace: Yeah. Okay, see you there. (closes cell phone) Oh, Perry! Come here, you little meat brick.

(In the backyard where Phineas and Ferb are lying on their backs watching the sky)
Phineas: Ferb, I've been thinking. Since there's nothing more fun than fun, why no add fun to everything?
(Ferb folds a piece of paper in half)
Phineas: Fun shoes, fun oatmeal,...
(Ferb places the folded paper on his nose)
Phineas: ...fun origami. Well, origami's already fun. Fun... (close-up of Ferb's face) house! Great idea, Ferb! We'll turn our house into a fun house, by you know, adding fun.
Candace: Hey, guys, where's Perry?
(Ferb removes the paper)
Phineas: I think he went that way. (points to the left)
(Camera pans to Perry, who stands up as his wrist communicator started beeping. He's about to turn it on when Candace notices him.)
Candace: Oh, there you are, Perry. (picks Perry up)
(Phineas is lying on his back again enjoying the fresh air. Ferb, meanwhile, has replaced the folded paper on his nose.)
Candace: (walking past them) I'm borrowing your platypus.
Phineas: (opens his eyes) Okay, have fun.
(Perry chatters before leaving with Candace. Ferb's blowing the paper on and off his nose.)
Candace: Will you stop squirming? You're a platypus. It's not like you have anywhere you need to be!

(In Perry's lair, Carl's modifying the chair while Monogram's on the monitor.)
Major Monogram: Where's Agent P? You set off the wrist beacon, right, Carl?
Carl: I'm worried too, sir. So I thought I'd make myself useful by modifying his chair. I added a hidden button so the chair will automatically go to Doofenshmirtz's. Then automatically return here. (laughs) Everything's Agent P sized here. It's kind of cute, like kindergarten.
(Monogram rolls his eyes.)

(Meanwhile, in the backyard...)
Delivery Man 1: Sign here, please.
Phineas: Let me guess, you guys just delivered to the zoo?
Delivery Man 1: Oh, yes. Yes, we did.
(All the items for the fun house is dumped into the backyard.)
Phineas: I thought I detected a hint of western lowland gorilla.
(The zoo platypus runs down the pile and then went towards the tree.)
Delivery Man 1: (sighing) No. No, that's me.
Phineas: Oh. Sorry, dude.
Delivery Man 1: (while walking away) That's okay, I'm learning to live with it.
Phineas: Yeesh. I could learn a thing or two from you about talking less. (pulls out blueprint; opens it) Now let's see. The hall of mirrors obviously goes in the hall, but where should we put the liquid nitrogen room?

(Back in Perry's lair, Carl is now taking a break while eating a sandwich.)
Major Monogram: What is taking Agent P so long?(notices the sandwich) Carl, what is in that sandwich?
Carl: (gulps; pause) Peanut butter, banana, and sardines.
Major Monogram: Oh, for Pete's sake, I can see the smell from here. Put it down and test all the outside portals. Maybe the doors are stuck or something.
Carl: Okay, sir. (places sandwich on console; pulls down a lever)
(Outside in the backyard, the door to the tree entrance opens. The zoo platypus smells Carl's sandwich and leaps in to eat it.)
Carl: Seems like it's working just...
(The zoo platypus lands in Perry's chair, much to Carl's surprise.)
Carl: Oh, there you are, Agent P.
Major Monogram: Thank goodness. (pause) You're in the way, Carl.
Carl: Oh. Sorry, sir. (walks to the right)
Major Monogram: Agent P, we were... Wait a minute. (close-up of the zoo platypus) You're not in uniform, agent. Where is your hat?
Computerized voice: Auto hat activated.
(One of Perry's spare fedoras is placed on the zoo platypus's head.)
Major Monogram: That's better. Sorry to be so harsh, Agent P, but today is a very special day. Your 100th battle with Dr. Doofenshmirtz.
Carl: (blows noisemaker)
Major Monogram: We planted hundreds of hidden cameras in Evil Incorporated (image of D.E.I. shows on monitor) so that we here at headquarters can watch the historic event and also enjoy some cheap laughs. (chuckles)
Doofenshmirtz: (on monitor) ♪ Shangri-La! You live forever here in Shangri-Laaaa! ♪
Major Monogram: We've got hours of that, hours. Now, do us proud, Agent P.
(While the zoo platypus tries to reach for Carl's sandwich, it "accidentally" touches a switch on Perry's chair, which activates a helicopter blade.)
(Outside the Flynn-Fletcher home, the stairs lifts up and the zoo platypus starts its journey toward D.E.I.)

(At the Danville Park, the charity pet wash is well under way. Among the animals in attendance are the unnamed brown-spotted beagle, the Johnson family's black poodle, Jenny Brown's dog,... and Perry.)
Jeremy: Man, look at all these pet lovers.
Candace: Yeah, my peeps.
(Close-up of Perry, who has a worried look on his face.)
Jeremy: You ready for your bath, huh, boy? Who loves Candace? Oh, who's a beautiful boy? Who loves Candace?
(Close up of Candace, who is in a love-induced trance. Her eyes gradually close)
Jeremy: (offscreen) What do you need? What do you need? You know what you need?
Candace: What do I need?
Jeremy: (offscreen) A bath.
Candace: (quickly opens her eyes) What? (realizes) Oh, yeah, right. Right. Right. Perry.
(Candace then tries to get Perry into a metal tub. Perry finally starts kicking his feet.)
Candace: What's wrong with you, Perry? Don't you wanna get clean, you dirty little... (Perry kicks her; she lets go of him) Whoops! Where'd he go?
(Perry's theme starts playing as he runs towards one of the trees. He hides behind it, goes into agent mode, and then puts on his fedora.)
(Perry chatters)
Jeremy: (while Perry quickly reverts to pet mode) I think he's behind that tree. (picks Perry up, who chatters again; hands him to Candace) See, he's glad you found him.
(Perry starts wriggling and grunting in Candace's arms.)
Candace: Yeah, me too.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Reynolds: (on TV) It looks like the zoo's new beaver-duck has escaped.
Doofenshmirtz: Eh, local news. (turns TV off with a remote) All summer long, we have this standing appointment and suddenly Mr. Big Shot can't be troubled to... (screams; spills his coffee)
(The zoo platypus has entered through the glass in Perry's chair. Doofenshmirtz jumps on an -inator with surprise. The chair lands and then the zoo platypus gets off of it.)
(At O.W.C.A. Headquarters, an excited Monogram's in the waiting area sitting on a blue couch in front of a wide-screen TV.)
Monogram: Hurry up, Carl. The fight's about to begin.
Doofenshmirtz: (on TV) Perry the Platypus!
(Back at D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: So kind of you to finally show up (pushes the button on the remote) and demolish my wall.
(The zoo platypus gets trapped.)
Doofenshmirtz: (tosses the remote) Gotcha!
(The remote lands on the edge of a table. Doofenshmirtz then gets off the -inator with a grunt.)
Behold, the Least-Likely-inator! All I have to do is zap someone with this baby and they can't help but do the least likely thing to their nature. (activates the Least-Likely-inator and a red ray comes out of it) Ooh, touchy.

(On a sidewalk, Isabella has caught up with Irving)
Isabella: Hey, Irving. Did you hear? Phineas and Ferb are building a fun house.
Irving: Really? (gets zapped by the ray; leans against an imaginary lamp post) Who cares? I'm too cool for those losers. Say, you're cute. (falls over) There used to be a lamp post there.

(Scene shifts to a close-up of Doofenshmirtz's face)
Doofenshmirtz: So what am I gonna do with the Least-Likely-inator, you ask? Make my daughter obey me? Make my father love me? No, and double no! ...Well, maybe later.
But first, I'm gonna aim this bad boy at City Hall and zap my brother the mayor. And he'll make a fool of himself in front of the legislature, which is the least likely thing he'd ever do. And the city will be forced to give the Tri-State Area to me, his next of kin! And don't tell me democracy doesn't work like that, Perry the Platypus. (covers his ears) I don't wanna hear it.
(Just then, the remote falls off the table, lands button side down, and therefore, deactivates the trap.)
Doofenshmirtz: (uncovers his ears; turns around) Perry the Platypus, you escaped already?
(The zoo platypus walks over to the spilled coffee then starts lapping at it.)
No, don't do that! I haven't vacuumed here in weeks.

(In the Flynn-Fletcher home, Phineas, Ferb, Buford, and Isabella are busy building the fun house.)
(Song: Quirky Worky Song)
Phineas: Whee! Wall slide's working.
Buford: Hey, Dinnerbell, where do you want the clown head?
Phineas: Clown room. (at Isabella) Hey, Isabella, how's that hall of cookies coming?
Isabella: Great, but I had to double the recipe.
Phineas: Hey, Ferb, how's the basement spin?
(ding!)
(The basement starts spinning around and around.)

(Back at D.E.I., the zoo platypus continues lapping up the spilled coffee.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, down on all fours! I know that fighting technique. (gets down on all fours) It's Singapore Crab! I learnt in Hoboken. (moves back and forth; stands up; imitates a crab) Oh, yeah, I'm gonna sidewalk all over you, baby.
(Close-up of the zoo platypus)
Oh, I see what you're doing. You're messing with my head. Trying to get into my mind. Walk around in there, rearrange the furniture...
(Scene shifts to O.W.C.A. Headquarters, where at this point, Carl has joined Monogram on the couch. A bowl of popcorn is lying on Monogram's lap.)
Doofenshmirtz: (on TV) ...maybe repaint the kitchen.
Major Monogram: Take note, Carl. You're watching a master agent at work. (eats some popcorn)
(At D.E.I., the zoo platypus is now just standing still.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, you're in for it.
(Camera pans to the Sand-o-mat, which has a whole bunch of sandwiches.)
Served with butter! (imitates a crab again; chuckles; zoo platypus walks by him; gets down on all fours) Hey, where'd you...
(Doofenshmirtz looks over to see that the zoo platypus is standing up with a paw on the Sand-o-mat.)
Hey, that's my sandwich display case.
(The zoo platypus tips the display case over, then goes back to all fours. Doofenshmirtz screams as it falls on him. Sandwiches then flies into the air, landing on various things. He screams again.)
(At O.W.C.A. Headquarters, the bowl of popcorn is now right between Monogram and Carl on the couch.)
Carl: Get him, Agent P!
(D.E.I.; Doofenshmirtz frowns as the zoo platypus eats the sandwich right in front of him.)
Doofenshmirtz: A fake-out, eh? (gets out from under the fallen display stand) Okay, Perry the Platypus, the claws are off now. From here on in, I fight the man style!
(The zoo platypus goes for a sandwich lying on a switch, which activates a brick wall. Doofenshmirtz slams into it. The wild monotreme then eats the sandwich.)
Doofenshmirtz: (muffling) Okay. I see you found the brick wall.
(O.W.C.A. Headquarters; Carl and Monogram has just watched the scene at D.E.I. on the TV. screen.)
Major Monogram: Oh, the Marsh Maneuver. Well, I haven't seen one of those since 1974.
(Camera shows that Carl's now holding the bowl of popcorn.)
Carl: 1974? You had a perm back then.
Major Monogram: Stay off the Internet, Carl.
(At the Danville Park, Candace is finishing washing Perry while Jeremy stands nearby holding a towel.)
Candace: (grunting; takes out Perry from tub) Here's cuteness!
Jeremy: (holds out towel; water drips off of Perry) That little guy's just drowning in mother love.
(Perry coughs as Candace places him on the towel.)

(At D.E.I., the zoo platypus is eating a sandwich on a table.)
Doofenshmirtz: What's the matter, Perry the Platypus? Don't they feed you at the agency?
(Doofenshmirtz leaps towards the zoo platypus, who jumps off the table. Unfortunately for him, he hits it and falls to the floor. A pitcher tips over and water spills out of it.)
Okay, resting now. Resting.
(The zoo platypus now eats a sandwich from a lever, which raises the floor.)
Oh, you wanna go public? Fine.

(At the Flynn-Fletcher home, Jeremy and Candace, holding Perry, are in the backyard.)
Jeremy: Wow, Candace, you sure know your pet.
(Candace puts Perry on the ground. Perry then goes through the door.)
You're the most responsible pet owner I've ever seen.
Candace: That's me. Now that we're here, can I offer you a... (opens back door)
(She and Jeremy yells as a gust of wind blows them into the house, and then the door slams shut)
Jeremy: A fun house? Man, your brothers are cool.
Candace: Oh, yeah. I'm sure.
(Song: Funhouse)
♪ Well, you think it's a chair ♪
♪ But it's growin' curly hair ♪
♪ And your sister's unaware ♪
♪ That she's floating in the air ♪
♪ You're livin' in a fun house, baby! ♪
♪ You're livin' in a fun house, don't mean maybe ♪
♪ A million doors in the hall ♪
♪ And the table's on the wall ♪
♪ And the bathtub is your bed ♪
♪ And a floating baby head ♪
♪ You're livin' in a fun house, Lawrence ♪
♪ So you'd better get some optical illusion insurance ♪
♪ The floors are steep, you'll never sleep ♪
♪ Your mother calls through the rubber walls ♪
♪ Liftin' up a feather that weighed a ton ♪
♪ Don't need to rent a fun house, make your own house fun! ♪
♪ (Your own house fun!) ♪
♪ You're livin' in a fun house, baby ♪
♪ You're livin' in a fun house, pass the gravy! ♪
♪ And while we're on the subject, meet my friend Davy ♪
♪ He was in the navy and his hair is wavy ♪
♪ We're livin' in a fun house, mama ♪
♪ We're livin' in a fun house, quite the drama ♪
♪ And while we're on the subject, that Peruvian llama's ♪
♪ Wearing my pajamas and I know that I'm-a ♪
♪ Just livin' in a fun house, baby! ♪
Phineas: That was some fun, huh, Candace?
Candace: No, not fun! Not fun.
Linda: (from outside the house) Candace? Boys? Come help me with the groceries.
Candace: I stand corrected. (leans out of her bedroom window) Mom, Phineas and Ferb built a giant fun house inside our house!
Linda: I'll be right there. I just gotta get the groceries.

(At D.E.I., the retractable roof is now opened and Doofenshmirtz and the zoo platypus are on top of the building.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, wait a minute. I've been going about this all wrong. I should be zapping you with the Least-Likely-inator so you'll lose! But first, I gotta get this sandwich out of the way.
(He tosses a sandwich over his shoulder, which lands on Perry's chair. The zoo platypus smells the sandwich then runs towards it.)
(laughs) Run, Perry the Platypus! But this time you're not likely to... (screams)
(Just then, the zoo platypus eats the sandwich, it hits Perry's chair and then leaves the building.)
Doofenshmirtz: Typical. (groans) I should've zapped myself.
(The Least-Likely-inator fires a red ray and then it explodes.)

(At the Flynn-Fletcher home)
Candace: But, Mom! Phineas and Ferb built a... (gets zapped by the ray) Urrgh!
(The song from earlier plays backwards as Candace cleaned the entire fun house up before Linda could eventually see it.)
Candace: Why am I doing this?
Linda: So, where's this fun house?
Phineas: Candace cleaned the whole thing up before you could see it.
Linda: You cleaned up the whole thing before I could see it?
Candace: Yes.
Linda: Well, that seems unlikely.
Ferb: Yes. Yes, it does.

(In Perry's lair, the zoo platypus walks out of it and a second later, Perry falls into his chair.)
Major Monogram, Carl: Surprise!
Major Monogram: Congratulations! Astounding work.
(Close-up of Perry)
Your 100th battle with Dr. Doofenshmirtz...
(Perry looks to the side)
...is already a big hit on the O.W.C.A. internet.
(Camera pans to the monitor) 
With five million downloads so far.
(Camera pans back to Perry)
You're a star, Agent P.

End credits
(Song: Funhouse)
♪ You're livin' in a fun house, baby ♪
♪ You're livin' in a fun house, pass the gravy! ♪
♪ And while we're on the subject, meet my friend Davy ♪
♪ He was in the navy and his hair is wavy ♪
♪ We're livin' in a fun house, mama ♪
♪ We're livin' in a fun house, quite the drama ♪
♪ And while we're on the subject, that Peruvian llama's ♪
♪ Wearing my pajamas and I know that I'm-a ♪
♪ Just livin' in a fun house, baby! ♪



(The scene opens in the backyard)
Phineas: You know what, Ferb? This is gonna be the most interesting thing we've ever built.
Ferb: And the tallest.
Phineas: Yes, and the tallest.
Ferb: And the heaviest.
Phineas: Wow, we're chatty today, aren't we?
(In Candace's room)
Candace: (on the "phone") I know, Stace, I can't believe I lost another one! I'll go out of my mind without it!
Linda: (knocks on the door then opens it) Candace, I've got something for you.
Candace: Stacy, I gonna have to call you back. My new phone is here. (reveals her "phone" is actually her hand) Wee! Gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme! (receives her phone) So, how many apps does it run? Can I play MP3s and send texts to Stacy the same time? How 'bout... Hey, wait a minute. All this phone does is...make phone calls!
Linda: Sorry, Candace. You've lost four phones in four months, so I got you the cheapest replacement I could find. If you lose this one, it's life without a phone for Candace Flynn. (walks away)
Candace: "Life without a phone for Candace Flynn"? But...but that's me!
Phineas: (outside) Fire in the hole! (explosion)
Candace: Phineas and Ferb, will you keep... (trips over a rug and the cell phone falls out of the window) NOOO!
(The cell phone lands on a soft puddle of leaves. She then looks out of the window.)
Oh! Well, how about that? It's all right.
Contractor: Hey, kid, where do you want me to leave these ridiculously heavy bars?
Phineas: Just set them down over there somewhere.
(the contractor truck drops the box down over the cell phone)
Candace: Not on my phone!
Phineas: On second thought, bring 'em over here.
Contractor: Sure thing, kid.
(the truck drives over the cell phone, breaking it even more)
Phineas: Thanks a lot.
Contractor: No sweat, kid.
(drives over the cell phone again)
Candace: AAAAHH!! It's blinking. Maybe it's still okay!
Contractor: Oh, hey. I need you to sign this invoice.
(drives over the cell phone again)
Phineas: Okay. And here...you go.
Contractor: Thanks, kid.
(drives over the cell phone again)
Contractor: Oh, forgot my pen.
(drives over the cell phone again)
Phineas: Here you go.
Contractor: Thanks kid.
(drives over the cell phone again)
Contractor: It had a cap.
Phineas: Oh, sorry.
Contractor: Take it easy, kid.
(drives over the cell phone again)
Candace: (runs down to the backyard) Oh, no! Phonsie! Oh, what've they done to you? (picks up the phone's debris) Hello? Hello? Can anyone hear me?
Phineas: I can hear you, Candace.
Candace: Oh, great, it still works. (at the phone's debris) Yeah, Phineas, I was just telling you that...uh! (realizes)
Phineas: Oh no, is that your new cell phone?
Candace: It used to be. Wait a second. You guys are good with wires and gadgets and stuff. Can you fix it?
Phineas: Well, it took almost forty years to perfect the technology that makes the modern cell phone possible. So...give us thirty-eight minutes. (at Ferb) Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today, before we do the other thing that we were gonna do today. Hey, where's Perry?

(In Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Carl!
Carl: What?
Major Monogram: Look, I'm getting messages from some diabolically clever hacker, who goes by the sinister initials "TTYL".
Carl: Sir, that means "talk to you later". If you scroll down, you can see that message was from me.
Major Monogram: Oh, oh, I see. That's, uh, very clever.
(Perry lands on his chair)
Oh, good morning, Agent P. Uh...beat it, Carl. I'm on. (Carl leaves) Sources tell us that Doofenshmirtz's "ROTFL". We don't know what that means, but it sounds dangerous.
Carl: Sir, ROTFL means...
Major Monogram: Not now, Carl. I'm briefing Agent P. (at Perry) So get out there and good hunting. (Perry leaves)
Oh, no! Carl, now it just says q-q-q-q-q-q-q.
Carl: It means your thumb is on the Q-key sir.
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (on the phone) Charlene, now I'm waiting for my exercise show to start, so I can't get Vanessa from class. Well, why can't you pick her up? Well, how long does the surgery take? What about afterwards? Okay, okay. All right, I'll do it. I'll figure something out. Yes, yes, I promise. Good bye. (turns off the phone) Sheesh. Maybe I could build some sort of Inator that would pick her up for me!

(In the garage at the Flynn-Fletcher home)
Isabella: Hey, Phineas; Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: We made Candace the best phone ever! (reveals the phone) What we've done here is revolutionized modern technology. We put all kinds of cool features on it. My favorite is the voice-activated phone transporter app. Show 'em, Ferb.
(Ferb reveals a video projector) You just say the words, "Go to", and then specify the name or place you're trying to reach, and the phone will take you there. Allow me to demonstrate. (at Isabella) Isabella, would you go stand over there on the driveway, please?
Isabella: Sure, Phineas. (leaves)
Buford: She's gone. Let's talk about her.
Baljeet: Focus, Buford.
Isabella: (on the driveway) Ready spaghetti!
Phineas: (to the cell phone) Go to Isabella.
Cell Phone: Isabella, located.
(Phineas transports to Isabella at a range where their noses appear to be touching)
Isabella: Hey, Phineas. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: I'm transporting. (to the phone) Go to garage.
Cell Phone: Garage, located.
(Phineas transports back the garage)
Isabella: Dang it!
Buford: So, then, Phineas was all like... (Phineas reappears) I'll finish my story later.
Phineas: And that's how it works.
Candace: Okay, Phineas. Thirty-eight minutes is up.
Phineas: But, Candace, you really should see our interactive tutorial.
Candace: The only thing that I wanna see is you later.
(rim shot on the cell phone) What was that?
Phineas: That was the rim shot app. Are you sure you don't wanna watch the tutorial?
Candace: I'm a teenage girl. Nobody has to teach me how to use a cell phone. Now if you'll excuse me, me and little phonsie-wonsie have to make up for lost time. Okay? Yeah, we do.
Phineas: O-kaay. Let's get back to what we were doing before.
Buford: When we get there, let's talk about Candace.

♪ Doofenshmirtz's ♪ (basso profundo solo) basement.
Doofenshmirtz: Man, it's dark down here. (hits over something) Uh, ohh! Turn on the light, Heinz, you're not a bat. (turns on the light) Hey! It's Norm's old head, the original prototype! I wonder if it still works.
Old Norm Head: (sarcastic) Oh, great, look who's here. It's Dr. Doof-degree-purchased-on-the-Internet-with-my-wife's-money-enshmirtz.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, I must say it's good to hear your voice again, too, after so long! I just came down here to get some parts for my new -inator.
Old Norm Head: Hey, take me with you. I haven't seen you blow yourself up for a long time.
Doofenshmirtz: All right, Mr. Smarty-pants. Come on, let's go.
Old Norm Head: Hey, on the way, let's swing by the store and get you some deodorant.
Doofenshmirtz: Quiet, you.
(The two hit over something again)

(In the living room)
Candace: (on her new phone) Yeah, so, like, then I like had to go 38 minutes without a phone, and I was like, "You guys better fix it, or else!" and they were like, "Candace, you're the best big sister we've ever had!" and I was like "Yeah." and they were like "WOOAHEEEHH!"
Stacy: Candace, I'd love to hear more, and I'm sure I will, but right now I'm trying to finish this documentary on Easter Island. Man, I wish I could go.
Candace: Why would you ever want to go to Easter Island?
Cell Phone: Easter Island, located.
Candace: Stacy, what happened to your voice? (transports to Easter Island) Oh, how did I get here? PHINEAS AND FEEERB!

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: I've really got to hand it to myself, Norm's Old Head. I'm a genius!
Old Norm Head: Ohh, is that what you see? 'Cause I'm looking at a lab coat filled with Doonkleberries on top of which someone has strategically placed a cabbage.
Doofenshmirtz: This is my new -inator. I call it the Pick-'Em-Up inator.
Old Norm Head: Hm-mm; so what's this one do and where can I hide when it doesn't do it and blows up?
Doofenshmirtz: All I have to do is enter the coordinates and launch. (coughs)
(the -inator flies away)
Vanessa: Ugh. I should've known Dad would be late. (the -inator landed over her and picks her up) Oh, what is this? Curse you, unknown rocket-helmet-transportation thing! (the Inator drops her at her house) Oh, sweet, I'm home. Never mind, unknown rocket-helmet-transportation thing!
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, look, Old Norm Head. It worked. It functioned properly! Vanessa's all picked up and taken home, with three minutes to spare.
Old Norm Head: That's great. We can spend the rest of the day working on your personality. Hey, this time let's try to bump to a C minus.
Doofenshmirtz: You know, I'm starting to remember why I replaced you and put you in storage.
(Door crashes open and Perry enters)
Perry the Platypus? What? I didn't do anything wrong today. I just built an Inator to pick up my daughter. But, hey, as long as you're here, why don't you join me for my evil exercise show? I've got a spare headband.
(Song: Dance Baby)
♪ Dance, baby, dance, baby, hands in the air ♪
♪ Get down to the store, buy a wicker chair ♪
♪ Sweat, baby, sweat, baby, wave your feet ♪
♪ Throw off your shoes and dance to the beat ♪
♪ Just dance, baby (dance, baby) ♪
♪ Dance, baby (dance, baby) ♪
♪ Wave your arms in the air (woo, ooo, ooo) ♪
♪ Wear sunglasses for the glare, yeah, yeah ♪
♪ Shake your feet to the beat (woo, ooo, ooo) ♪
♪ Make sure you get a window seat, yeah ♪
♪ Sweat, baby, sweat, baby, soak your hat ♪
♪ Wring it out, take it to the laundromat ♪
♪ Dance, baby, dance, baby, wave your feet ♪
♪ Throw off your shoes and dance to the beat ♪
♪ Just dance, baby (dance, baby) ♪
♪ Dance, baby (dance, baby) ♪
♪ Dance, baby, dance, baby, shake your hips ♪
♪ Go down to the pier and get some fish and chips ♪
♪ Groove, baby, groove, baby, motivate your limbs ♪
♪ Never eat a cactus if you're out of practice ♪
♪ Shake your feet to the beat, get a window seat ♪
♪ You can feel the heat and you feel complete ♪
♪ You're poppin' it, lockin' it, round-the-clockin' it ♪
♪ Everybody's talkin' it 'cause you're rockin' it ♪
♪ Just dance, baby! ♪

(at Easter Island)
Candace: Easter Island? Who makes an app that sends people in Easter Island? (a bird grabs her cell phone) Hey, come back here! I need that to get home! (runs over a cliff) Aaaah! Oh, that was close. Talk about a cliffhanger.
(rim shot on the cell phone)

(at Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Can I get you a sports drink, Perry the Platypus? No? All right. Suit yourself. Say, as long as you're tied up, I'll tell you the evil plan I just thought of while we were working out. See, I figured my Pick-'Em-Up-Inator works so well; I could mass produce them and pick up everyone in the Tri-State Area! (drinks the sports drink) Then, they would have to do what I tell them. Man, what is in this stuff?

(at Easter Island)
Candace: Okay, bird! You better give me my phone or I'm gonna rock you to sleep...with a REAL rock!
(rim shot on the cell phone again) Ugh!
(A turtle hears Candace and becomes Agent T, contacting Carl)
Carl: Yes? What is it, Agent T? (Agent T shows him) Oh no, that's Candace Flynn of the Flynn-Fletcher family.
Candace: (on the cliff) Phineas! Aaaaah!
Carl: I better notify Agent P. Good work, Agent T.

(at Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: (reading the label) "Glycerol, glycerol, ester of rosin, yellow 15." I guess they had 14 other yellows.
(Perry sees Candace on Easter Island on his wristwatch communicator)
Doofenshmirtz: "Sucrose acetate, isobut."
(Perry hits his foot with a barbell)
Aaah! What was that about? Man, tie a guy up and he gets all foot-stompy on you for no reason!
(Perry activates the Pick-'Em-Up-Inator)
Old Norm Head: Hey, Perry the Platypus, could you do me a favor and leave that remote here?
Doofenshmirtz: Urgh. There, I'm better. Hey. Perry the Platypus, that's it? You're just gonna thwart and run?
(Perry tips his fedora and then leaves)
Curse you, Perry the... (his phone rings) Hello? Oh hi, Vanessa. Yes, that was my -inator. Listen, honey, I'm in the middle of something, hold on one second. (at Perry) ...PLATYPUUUS! (at Vanessa) So, how was class?

(at Easter Island)
Candace: Oh, give me the phone, bird! (the bird pecks her) Aw, aww! Give me a break! (the twig breaks; rim shot on the cell phone again) AAAAAHHH!
(The Inator picks her up) AAAAHHH!
(she passes across the ocean, across a flock of birds, a giant wave, and outside the Earth) AAAAAAAHHHH!
(In the backyard)
Phineas: Well, you were right, Ferb. The most interesting thing we ever built was very tall and very heavy. And the guy from the museum seemed very appreciative.
Ferb: I still can't believe it fit in his truck.
Candace: AAAAAAHHH! (lands beside them)
Phineas: Hey, Candace. Buford was just talking about you.
Candace: You guys are SOOOO busted! I'm calling Mom right now. Oh, no. I don't have the phone! (car honks) That's Mom! When she finds out I lost it, my life is ruined!
Phineas: Relax, Candace. We made two, just in case.
Candace: You did that for me?
Phineas: Well, sure.
Candace: Thank you. You do realize I'm still gonna have to bust you for making me go to Timbuktu?
Cell Phone: Timbuktu, located.
Candace: Meap. (disappears)
Phineas: She's gonna miss pie.
(Candace transports to Timbuktu)
Candace: PHINEAS AND FEEEERB!

(Norm's Old Head lands on Easter Island by the Inator)
Old Norm Head: Finally, a place where a head can be a head. When's the bunny get here with all the eggs? Huh? Yeah, Easter Island? Huh? Huh? Oh, man, where's the bird with the rim shot app when you need him.



(Song: Pinhead Pierre Theme)
♪ Pinhead Pierre ♪
(remaining lyrics are sung under Lawrence & Phineas's dialogue)
♪ Has the smallest head of which I'm aware ♪
♪ It's about the size and shape of a pear ♪
♪ Everywhere the children stare ♪
♪ Life's cruel and unfair ♪
♪ To Pinhead Pierre! ♪
Lawrence: Boys! Boys! Come quick!
Phineas: What is it, Dad?
Lawrence: It's the new, digitally remastered third series of Pinhead Pierre! (boys bounce down on a large inflatable ball) Only the best series ever and my most favorite show ever. That's all.
Phineas: You had us at come quick.
Pinhead Pierre: Hi kids! (kids applaud and cheer) Kids, sometimes when your head is this small, you just want to get away for a bit. You know, escape from all the laughing and pointing. Whenever I feel like that, you know what I do? Magic carpet ride! Roll out your official Pinhead Pierre rugs, kids!
Lawrence: Right-o! (runs to get it) It's been at my bedside all these years! (pushes coffee table over) Hop on, boys! (all sit on rug) We're about to take off on the ride of a lifetime!
Pinhead Pierre: What's the magic word?
Lawrence: Streptococcus!
Pinhead Pierre: Whoa! Whoa! We're flying!
Lawrence: Here we go, boys!
Pinhead Pierre: (showing obviously fake birds and clouds) And look out below! It's Paris. There's the Arc de Triomphe and the Eiffel Tower! And there's the Colosseum?! What's that doing here?!
Linda: Lawrence, can you look at these tile samples with me? I want to re-do the living room.
Lawrence: (sadly) Oh well, I suppose it wasn't quite as thrilling as I remember. Carry on, boys.
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! Hey, where's Perry?

(Perry lands in his lair to see Major Monogram asleep. He gives a disapproving look at the monitor.)
Major Monogram: (wakes up; clears throat) WRONG PANTS! Huh? Oh, sorry, Agent P. Guess I was, uh, dozing there. Anyway, it appears Dr. Doofenshmirtz has completely cleared the Tri-State Area out of all grape juice, red wine, chocolate, marinara sauce, India ink, and, worst of all, (holds up mug) coffee! So, uh, go and, uh, you know, do the thing, that thing... Sorry. I'm just no good until I have that first mug o' Joe.
(Perry salutes)

(cut to Better Panda restaurant in Danville with Candace and Stacy Hirano)
Candace: I try and I try and I try and I try, but no matter what I do, things never work out like I planned! (Stacy is starting to fall asleep listening to her) Maybe if I knew how things were gonna turn out, I could plan for that and then do the right stuff! I know. I know. That doesn't make any sense, does it?
Stacy: You said it, sister. Have a cookie. (throws fortune cookie at her)
Candace: (sighs) I guess it's too much to expect some magic answer to all my problems. (breaks cookie) Let's see. "Somebody close to you will take a trip." Boy, I hope they take me with them.
Waiter: (trips on cookie on the ground, which is what Candace's fortune said) I'm okay!
Candace: Ha ha! That was great. What a dumb coincidence. (breaks another cookie) Let's try another. "You'll know the truth when it hits you." OK, boring.
(Crumples fortune up, throws it, it hits a cup which bounces back and hits her, answering another fortune. She looks at cookies with a surprised look.)
Stacy: Oh, no, girl. You are not--
Candace: (breaks another cookie) "Let the wisest among you light the way." There! A light bulb! And an old guy!
'"Old guy:"' Does anybody know where I live?
Stacy: But Candace, you jus--
Candace: No, Stacy. It's real. These cookies know what's going to happen next! I can use them to bust my brothers!
(The girls run out of the restaurant and Candace takes big bowl of cookies)
Thanks for the cookies!
Stacy: Candace!
Worker: HEY! THOSE COST A TENTH OF A CENT A PIECE! (puts out another bowl) So, enjoy them in good health, I guess.
(cut to living room at the Flynn-Fletcher home)
Lawrence: (walks in, boys are sitting on rug looking at TV with controllers) Well, another interior design crisis averted.
Phineas: Have a seat, Dad.
Lawrence: What, some new video game then?
Phineas: You'll see. Voice ignition system: active. Micro-filament omnidirectional jet grid: active. Anti-gravity quantum-state lift discs: active. We have lift-off in 4, 3, 2, 1. (entire second floor of the house opens up, carpet lifts off)
Lawrence: Has the entire second floor always opened up like this?
Phineas: We don't use it very often, but yeah.
Lawrence: Well, nostalgia's got nothing on this!

(The rug flies by Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated and pans over to it, where Perry is shown climbing up. He breaks in through a window, lands on a tile, then gets tied to a handcart. Doofenshmirtz walks over.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus. Just in time. (pulls cart) Our flight is about to leave. Behold, the Stain-inator! What's it for, you ask? I'll tell you on the way.
(Cut to them flying across town on the Stain-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: It began in Gimmelshtump when I was a callow youth yearning for a career in fine art.
(Flashback of a younger Doofenshmirtz painting something)
Doofenshmirtz:' (Narrating) I quickly discovered that although I loved painting, (Shows young Doof ripping his painting in half) my muse was sometimes... inaccessible. (shows him lying on bed, depressed) Then one day, just as I was about to give up in frustration, inspiration struck.
(A bright light suddenly shines on young Doofenshmirtz's head, he smiles, and cuts to him splattering paint on a large canvas)
I was up for three days straight gripped in glorious, artistic fever. Then finally, my masterpiece!
(Light shines on painting, as it did on his head, then runs across to street to a younger Roger eating)
I rushed across the street to get my brother, Roger. He was in the middle of his favorite meal. A sloppy joe, greasy french fries with ketchup, grape juice, coffee, and chocolate pudding. And I insisted he come at once.
(Young Heinz starts pushing young Roger across the street. When they arrive, Roger spills his meal right into the painting.)
That day I made a solemn vow that Roger would pay for what he'd done. (cuts to them in an office) The next morning I had the solemn vow notarized.
(Flashback ends)
Doofenshmirtz: But today, I will finally get my revenge! You see, my brother, the honorable mayor Roger Doofenshmirtz, will be unveiling a new piece of art for the lobby of City Hall. Hence the Stain-inator, hence revenge, hence, uh... (Perry slowly wheels himself and his trap to the edge of the jet) no more hencing. That's about it.

(Cut to Phineas, Ferb, and Lawrence flying around on the carpet)
Lawrence: I say, boys, you can barely feel the road! It corners like a dream! Pinhead Pierre, eat your heart out!
Phineas: What do you say we take the gang for a spin?
(Cut to Isabella bird-watching in a tree. Phineas's hand reaches down to her)
Isabella: (gasps) Wow! (takes his hand)
(Song: Aerial Area Rug)
♪ You can't see much of the skyline ♪
♪ It looks like more of a grid ♪
(Phineas picks up Buford and Baljeet at the pier)
♪ It's a viable variation of view ♪
♪ But it's something I'm sure we'll be glad that we did ♪
♪ It's not like the world that we see from the ground ♪
♪ I guess the main difference is we're looking down ♪
♪ So climb on our aerial area rug ♪
♪ It's certain to keep us aloft ♪
♪ Its aerodynamics are highly advanced ♪
♪ And its weave is so tight and so soft ♪
♪ Though this vista's diverse ♪
♪ Is it better or worse? ♪
♪ If you'll ask, I'll just give you a shrug ♪
♪ But you can vary your view of the area ♪
♪ From our aerial area rug ♪
♪ It's a brand new perspective ♪
♪ Literally ♪
♪ We can see the tops of buildings ♪
♪ Come along with me ♪
♪ You can vary your view of the area ♪
♪ From our aerial area rug ♪
♪ You can vary your view of the area ♪
♪ From our aerial area rug! ♪
Lawrence: Ah, thank you, boys, this was lovely.
Ferb: And does anyone else want to be "king of the world"?
Phineas: Ah, keep it, bro. It suits you.
(Cut to Stacy and Candace walking on the street)
Candace: Okay. Here we go. "You choose the path that few others dare travel." Done and done. Come on, Stace! Follow me! (runs ahead)
Stacy: Really, Candace? What to you hope to accomplish by this?
(Girls walking on top of fence)
Candace: Everything! Don't you see? All the problems in my life can be solved through concrete knowledge of the future!
(Girls under bushes)
Stacy: Right; as you create a whole new set of problems.
Candace: Oh, stop being so close-minded. (girls walking through house/apartment) For instance, what's my biggest problem?
Stacy: You believe fortune cookies are real?
Candace: I mean, besides that.
Stacy: You're totally obsessed with busting your brothers!
Candace: Exactly! And with infallible fortune cookie guidance, I can accomplish that easily. (breaks cookie) Watch. "If something seems fishy, maybe it's a fish!"
Stacy: (sarcastically) Genius.
Fish seller: Hey all, catch it now! Fresh fish! Fresh fish!
Candace: What do you have to say now, Doubty McNonbelief?
Stacy: Why am I suddenly Irish?
Candace: To the fish market!
(The girls walk over to the fish market)
Candace: Excuse me, have you guys seen two little... (fish seller throws a fish to Candace) Oof! (Candace throws the fish to Stacy)
Stacy: Ew! Gross!
(Stacy throws the fish behind her; Candace and Stacy continue to relay fish in this manner)
Candace: Gross... but foretold, Stacy. Preordained! What's next? What's next?!
Stacy: Better be something about soap.
Candace: "One man's trash is another man's treasure." To the Dumpster!
(Candace is now buried in a Dumpster, covered in garbage)
Candace: "Success starts at home." Finally! It's go time! To the backyard!
Stacy: It gets hard to watch.

(Cut to Doofenshmirtz and Perry on the Stain-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Boy, it's just gorgeous out, huh? A perfect day for ruining a City Hall lobby art dedication. You know, if you're into that kind of thing. Which I am!
(Perry wheels himself to the back of the Stain-inator)
Heh-heh. Either way, it's nice to get out of the lab for a change and, you know, try to destroy art in the fresh air.
(Perry jumps and loops the rope around him to one of the Stain-inator's tail fins)
Quite a field trip! TO THE DEATH!
(Perry unwinds the rope and gives the handcart to a woman carrying groceries)
Woman: Thank you!
(Perry tips his fedora and launches back up)
Doofenshmirtz: I'm sure if I thought about it, I could come up with some emotionally-scarring back-stories that are more outdoors-y... (Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz) Aouagh!
(Doofenshmirtz drops the remote, which lands and activates the Stain-inator, which fires rapidly in all directions. One black stain ball hits a billboard reading "glop (toothpaste) makes teeth white," turning the teeth on the billboard black)
(Cut to a psychiatrist's office)
Psychiatrist: (holding up a Rorschach blot) What does this look like to you?
(a red stain ball hits the window behind the psychiatrist)
Patient: (pointing at the stained window) That.
(Cut to a pure white mansion, where a man is sitting drinking tea. He sips his tea twice.)
(Cut to an outdoor café, where a man is sitting with his date)
Man: Well, it's great to finally meet you in... ah... chPERSON! (he sneezes on the last word; as he does so, a mucus-colored stain ball hits the woman in the face. The man coughs.) So, when can I see you again?
(Cut back to the Stain-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, not only does this thing work, it has a sense of irony! (Perry punches Doofenshmirtz) Ow!... AAAAAHHHHHH!
(Doofenshmirtz is now hanging by his ankle from the rope tied to the tail fin; Perry is still fighting him. The Stain-inator passes City Hall)
Roger: (addressing a crowd on the front steps of City Hall) Thank you, friends, and welcome.
Doofenshmirtz: (climbing back onto the Stain-inator) Right on time.
Roger: It fills me with great pride to contribute today to the cultural enrichment of the Tri-State Area. I've always been a great lover of the arts.
Doofenshmirtz: Liar, liar, pants on fire. (Perry starts attacking Doofenshmirtz from behind) Yah! You again? (Doofenshmirtz presses a button on the remote) There. Auto-fire in 30 seconds. Nothing can stop it now.
Roger: You see, the greatest painting I ever saw was made by my brother Heinz.
Doofenshmirtz: You'd better believe it! Art killer.
Roger: And I, in an extraordinary act of clumsiness, destroyed it, denying him the accolades he so greatly deserved.
Doofenshmirtz: And here comes the payback...!
Roger: And that's why I've spent the last two decades restoring it to its former glory.
Doofenshmirtz: What? Huh, what? (rapidly pressing the remote) No no! No no! No no no no no no... OH NOOOOOO!!!!
Roger: Ladies and gentlemen, (removes the cover from the painting) my brother's painting! (a purple stain ball immediately hits the painting)
Doofenshmirtz: NOOOOOOoooohoohoohooooo...
Roger: Well, that was 20 years well-spent. (at his secretary) Melanie, what's my next appointment?
(Cut back to the Stain-inator; Perry is destroying it)
Doofenshmirtz: Go ahead, Perry the Platypus. I don't care anymore.
(Perry hang-glides off the Stain-inator as it crashes)

(Cut to Candace, who is running with garbage in her hair, a plastic six-pack holder on her arm, a tire around her waist, and her foot in a cardboard box)
Candace: Gotta get home, gotta get home... (gasps) There they are!
Lawrence, Phineas, Isabella, Buford, Baljeet: (on the magic carpet, singing) ♪ Pinhead Pierre, has the smallest head of which I'm aware... ♪
Candace: Fate is kind.

(Cut to Doofenshmirtz at the crashed Stain-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Behold this, you stupid... (kicks Stain-inator, causing one stain ball to fly out)

(Cut back to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: (running inside) Hee, hee, hee, hee, hee, hee...
(The paint ball hits the bottom of the carpet and the second floor opens up, allowing the carpet back in)
Phineas: Did anyone else feel a drop?
Candace: (in the kitchen) Mom! Mom! Mom!
Linda: Hi Candace. That's a nice look for you.
Candace::You gotta see. Carpet! Living room. (pulls Linda away from the counter; the knife she was holding spins a few times and sticks in the counter) Now! Look.(drags Linda into the living room, where Lawrence and the kids have safely landed. The carpet has been dyed purple from the stain ball)
Linda: A new living room carpet! Oh, that's much better than tile. How lovely!
Candace: Bubububububu...
Linda: You surprised me, Lawrence. I thought you were gonna sit in front of this TV all day.
Lawrence: I... did!
Linda: Oh, you. (to the kids) I think this calls for a celebration. Who wants Chinese?
Phineas, Ferb, Buford, Baljeet, Isabella: Me!
Buford: Me!
Lawrence: I do!
(Everyone enters the kitchen except Candace. Stacy walks in)
Stacy: You okay, kiddo?
Candace: I don't get it! These things have been right about everything. I mean, look!
(Candace breaks the last cookie and reads the fortune. Her face goes blank and she shows the fortune to Stacy.)
Stacy: "Don't believe everything you read." Words to live by.

End credits
(Song: Aerial Area Rug)
♪ We can see the tops of buildings ♪
♪ Come along with me ♪
♪ You can vary your view of the area ♪
♪ From our aerial area rug ♪
♪ You can vary your view of the area ♪
♪ From our aerial area rug! ♪



(Scene opens up showing Stacy running to the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Stacy: I'm coming as fast as I can, Candace! I'm at your house. Now, what kind of emergency are we dealing with? A parent emergency? A Phineas and Ferb emergency? Oh my--
Candace: (has an unusual hairstyle) Ahhhh-ha-ha! AHHHH!
Stacy: A hair emergency: the worst kind! This is awful! How did--? Wait, what are these 4 long streads, and look at this shaved areal! What's that all about? Is this a rolled-up sock? Candace, who did this to you?
Candace: Stacy, it was ME, I did it to myself.
Stacy: Why?
Candace: Jeremy's mom is hosting a benefit for endangered animals this afternoon, and I wanted a new look!
Stacy: So you want your hair to look like an endangered species?
Candace: No, there are all these How-To videos online. They make it look so easy.
Lady in Video: Just brush it up, toss your head back, and viola! It's simplicious.
Candace: It's not simplicious! It's hard-plicious!
Stacy: Candace, take it easy.
Candace: Look at me! (Lies on laptop keyboard) A tragic victim of Internet hair stylists!
Stacy: Sorry, I don't think there's anything I can do, but there are a couple of guys who could...
Candace: No, no way!
Stacy: Uh, are these chopsticks?
Candace: Ugh, all right. PHINEAS AND FERRRB?!
(Phineas and Ferb comes into Candace's room drinking water, then they spit out the water because they noticed Candace's hair)
Phineas: What do you think? We been working on our spit takes all morning.
Candace: Yeah, yeah, you're hilarious. Listen, I need you two to get me out of this situation.
Phineas: Why? Your hair is simplicious!
Ferb: Have you tried tossing your head back?
Candace: Look, I don't have time to explain. Just get me back to the way I was.
Phineas: Okay; yeah, but I think you're making a mistake.
Stacy: Hey, where's Perry? What, I'm like the only person who's never said it.

(Agent P's in the backyard climbing up a tree, then sits on a egg a goes down a fast tube and enters his lair)
Major Monogram: Good afternoon, Agent P. For the past few days, our motion sensors have detected Dr. Doofenshmirtz rummaging around in his basement. So, last night we had Carl stake down there behind his water heater.
Carl: It was horrible down there!
Major Monogram: Carl!
Carl: I saw a rat give birth... to a snail!
Major Monogram: Just tell him about Doofenshmirtz.
Carl: Doofenshmirtz kept coming down and grabbing pieces of his old Inators from cardboard boxes. Oh no, brown recluse spider's favor dwelling in cardboard boxes! (Major Monogram touches him in the ear; He shrieks) Get it off! Get it off!
Major Monogram: Get out there and find out what Doof is up to. (At Carl) Seriously Carl? What a baby.
Carl: I think it laid eggs in my ear!

(Phineas and Ferb have completed the machine to fix Candace's hair and Candace is now sitting in the chair of the machine)
Phineas: So by combining ultra-violet and infrared waves together with follicle stimulation properties, not only does it style your hair, but it stimulates and accelerates new hair growth! So that should take care of that little shaved area. (at Stacy) What's that all about?
Stacy: Don't get me started.
Phineas: (at Candace) All you have to do is sit there for thirty minutes on setting five and you're good to go.
Candace: Yeah, yeah, tick-tock.
Phineas: Start her up Ferb. (at Candace) Remember, thirty minutes on setting five.
Candace: Thanks guys!
(Candace's tangerine orangutan ringtone goes off and Phineas and Ferb leave the room) 
Stacy: What was that?
Candace: Oh, I changed my ringtone. That's a tangerine orangutan. Endangered animals! (looks at her phone) Oh, it's Jeremy! (she picks it up) Hi. You're uh, picking me up in ten minutes? Great! (nervous laugh) Bye. (hangs up the phone) Ten minutes! Stacy, crank this thing up. If it takes a half an hour on five it should do the trick in ten seconds on twenty.
Stacy: I don't know Candace, maybe you shouldn't mess with-
Candace: Yeah, yeah, yeah, it'll be fine.
Stacy: (nervously) Ok.
(Stacy turns the dial to twenty and the machine lights up over Candace's head)
Candace: Besides Stacy, they wouldn't put a twenty on it if it weren't meant to be used, right?
Stacy: Well...I guess so.
Candace: Oh, my ten seconds are up! (lifts the top part of the machine from her head) Well, how does it look?
Stacy: (gasps) I can't believe it! It's perfect!
Candace: Told you it'd be fine.
(the camera zooms in on Candace's neck, which is now starting to grow hair)
Candace: Ooh, now help me find something cute to wear.

(The scene changes to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc. and Perry is seen using a lock pick to break into Doofenshmirtz's apartment. He opens the door to find Doofenshmirtz surrounded by a thick fog playing on pipe organs. Doofenshmirtz presses a key on the organ and Perry falls into a hole that somehow brings him upwards to get trapped in one of the organ's pipes.) 
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus I don't like your tone. (plays dramatic chords on the organ) Behold...I give you...The very VERY BAD-INATOR!
(The Bad-inator rises dramatically from the floor as Doofenshmirtz says this. He then gets up from the organ and walks toward the Inator)
Doofenshmirtz: It's made up of only the most evil parts of my old Inators, cobbled together without any rhyme or reason. My plan is to load it on my floating platform, take it high above the Tri-State Area and, you know, turn it on and see what it does. (turns towards Perry) I have no idea but I'm sure it's gonna be bad. Hence, Very Bad-inator. (pretends to shiver) Ooh, I got a chill!

(The scene changes to the Natural History Museum where Jeremy's parents are hosting the benefit for endangered animals.)
Candace: (walking into the museum) Wow, nice turnout.
Jeremy: Yeah.
Candace: Hey, there's your mom.
Mrs. Johnson: There you two are! Don't you look nice, Candace.
Candace: Oh, thanks Mrs. Johnson.
Mrs. Johnson: Come on, I'll show you where we're sitting. (she begins to lead them to the table) We have a very good turn out this year, many of Danville's top zoologists are here.
(Candace notices hair growing on her hand as she walks and quickly yanks it out)
Scientist #2: (to Scientist #1) I bet I'll have more species named after me than you do, care to make a wager?
Scientist #1: No.
Scientist #2: Why not?
Scientist #1: Because your last name is Pithicus.
Scientist #2: (laughs)
Mrs. Johnson: The money that this banquet raises will go a long way to facilitate solutions for the problems these poor animals face.
(Hair begins to sprout all over Candace's body.)
Candace: (through clenched teeth) Great!
Jeremy: Uh, Candace, I think you've got a little food or something on your lip.
Candace: (covering her mouth with her hand) Will you excuse me for a moment? (runs off to a table with an elderly couple sitting at it) Umm I just need to see this spoon for a- (uncovers her mouth and sees the mustache growing on her face and screams. She then hides under the table.)
Candace: (on the phone) Phineas.
Phineas: Oh hi Candace. (at Ferb and Linda at the dinner table) It's Candace. (at Candace) You turned it up to twenty? So what happened?
Candace: (mumbles are heard from the phone)
Phineas: No way! That is so cool.
Candace: (mumbles are heard from the phone again)
Phineas: Ok, I'll see what we can do. (he hangs up the phone) Mom, may Ferb and I be excused? Candace needs help with her hair.
Linda: So you guys are hair stylists now?
Phineas: Apparently.
Linda: So, what would you do with my hair?
Phineas: Nothing, it's perfect the way it is.
Linda: Wow, you are good.
Phineas: Girlfriend, please.

Doofenshmirtz: (on the flying platform) Be careful Perry the Platypus, you're awfully close to the edge. Oh! Let me help you back. (laughs as Perry is sent from one side of the platform to the other) I'm just messing with ya.

Jeremy: Candace! Candace? Now where'd she go?
Candace: I gotta find a better place to hide. (Candace moves the table away from the elderly couple)
Old Man: (making magic fingers) Ooohhhh.
Old Lady: Oh stop it.
Old man: You've lost your joie de vivre.
(Candace runs the table by the two scientists to go backstage)
Scientist #1: Wow, this thing keeps getting weirder every year!
Professor Jones: (practicing his speech) It is wonderful to see such a fine turnout- AAAH!
(Candace comes up behind him and tosses the table on him)
Candace: (looking at her hair covered hands) AAH!
Scientist #2: (on stage) Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to tonight's lecture!
Jeremy: (calling Candace) Where did she go?
Scientist #2: Won't you all please help welcome...
Candace: Oh no!
Scientist #2: Professor Herbert Fordsworth Weatherman Jones!
(the curtains open, revealing Candace now completely covered in hair. Jeremy's ringtone on Candace's phone goes off)
Jeremy: Uh...
Mrs. Johnson: That's not professor Herbert Fordsworth Weatherman Jones, that's the rare tangerine orangutan! We have to capture it and return it to the wild. (getting up from the table) Stand back everyone, I have an associate's degree in zoology, I got this.
Candace: Oh no! Jeremy's mother! She can't see me like this!
(Candace runs off the stage, knocking over tables in her haste)
Mrs. Johnson: (chasing Candace down hallways) Don't run away! I mean you no harm!
Candace: (now in a fossil exhibit) AAH! (she climbs up the bones of a T-Rex to reach the window outside and climbs out)
Mrs. Johnson: No no no! Don't go up there, don't go up on the roof! (at Jeremy) Jeremy, would you do me a favor and call animal control please?
Jeremy: Sure thing, Mom.
(outside the museum Phineas and Ferb spots Candace)
Phineas: Hey Ferb, look up there! That's Candace on the roof. And I was worried this function would be dull. (he calls Candace) 
Candace: (on the phone) Phineas help! Jeremy's mom thinks I'm an orangutan and is trying to return me to the wild!
Phineas: Ok, hang tight. We brought the hair remover.

(the scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz on his flying platform)
Doofenshmirtz: This looks like the perfect spot to fire up the Really Bad-inator. (taps on the control panel of the machine) I can't wait to see what it does. Guess we'll have to wait. Ooh I brought snacks. (walks over to the picnic basket) Let me see what I have here. (rummages through the basket) Baby carrots, some grapes, and a- ooh, peanut butter! Ooh, and some honey! See, Perry the Platypus, most people like peanut butter and jelly sandwiches but I really prefer peanut butter and honey.
(Perry struggles in his trap)

(the scene shifts to Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: Very few people know that Myron's discus thrower was made with real ancient disc-throwing action.
(Phineas and Ferb climb onto the statue)
Phineas: Hang on Ferb! (pushes a button on the statue with his foot, sending the arm of the statue spinning) Wwwweeeee!
(Phineas and Ferb are thrown onto the roof near Candace)
Phineas: Candace? Ferb and I made a sonic oscillator. This baby'll blow the hair of a peach at ninety yards.
Candace: Great, get this hair off of me.
Mrs. Johnson: (opening the window to the roof) Yoohoo! Little friend, where did you go?
Phineas: Come on Ferb.
(Phineas and Ferb sneak around the edge of the dome to hide from Jeremy's mom.)
Mrs. Johnson: I see you!
Animal Control Guy: Animal control. You got a monkey that needs tranquilizing?
Mrs. Johnson: That is not a monkey, it's the very rare tangerine orangutan.
Animal Control Guy: (loading the darts into the tranquilizer gun) Yeah yeah, tomato potato. Just leave it to the professionals. (he cocks the tranquilizer gun and fires at Candace)
Candace: AAH!
(She climbs higher on the dome to escape the dart, which misses her and bounces off. The dart then travels to hit the Animal Control Guy.)
Animal Control Guy: (seeing the dart in his backside) Huh. Would you look at that. Well, you probably noticed that I'm ah...not that good at my job so...you can just take this and I'll be right back. (he passes out)

(Doofenshmirtz is still rummaging through the picnic basket while Perry struggles to free himself from his trap)
Doofenshmirtz: Ooh yes. Peanut butter and honey sandwiches. The trick is the honey, and you get to use one of these weird honey-spoony things.
(crashes are heard)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Playtpus, did you just say gungalingdung?
(Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz in the face, causing honey to pour all over Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Aww, great! Now I'm sticky. (he gets up while Perry goes to the controls) Aww, no, and this was my last clean lab coat too. Ugh it's on now!
(Perry takes the controls with a mischievous smirk on his face as he turns the platform back and forth.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey! Hey, hey! What are you doing? Ooh I get. Payback. Very funny, Perry the Platypus. You're very mature.

Mrs. Johnson: (reading the instruction manual for the tranquilizer gun) Thank you for purchasing the Hanson 3000 Family Friendly Tranquidart Air-contrast delivery system, there are many like it but this one is yours.
Candace: Phineas, hurry, while she's distracted!
Phineas: Alright, Candace.
(Ferb fires the gun, blowing the hair off of Candace, leaving her with her trademark hairstyle.)
Candace: Hey it worked!
(Candace slides down the pole and the scene shifts back to Doofenshmirtz and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: As soon as I get this honey off of me, I- (Candace's hair hits Doofenshmirtz, sending him off of the platform and onto the pole where Candace once was.)
Doofenshmirtz: Is this hair?
(Perry is still on the platform and manages to disable the Very Bad-inator. He escapes on his glider.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, no! Now I'll never know what the Bad-inator does! Curse you, Perry the Platypus!
Mrs. Johnson: The red plunger will act as a non-return valve and retain the air within the dart. Fear not helpless primate, for I will return you to the wild, or my name isn't Hawk-eye Johnson! (aims; tranquilizer gun cocks; shoots)
Doofenshmirtz: (screams) Oh, man. Shot in the butt with a dart, while covered in honey and hair? Well, what do you know, my horoscope was right. (hugging pole) Oh, my beautiful, beautiful horoscope.
Mrs. Johnson: Oh, no! What have I done? She's going to fall!
Doofenshmirtz: (drowsily) Hold the door, Barbra. I think this is our floor. (falls)
Candace: Thanks, guys! I could just hug you! (proceeds to hug her brothers, but ends up catching a hair and honey-covered Doofenshmirtz instead)
Phineas: Awesome!
Mrs. Johnson: Candace? You caught her! You saved this orangutan!
Animal control guy: I'll take it from here. (grunts) Leave it to the professionals.
Doofenshmirtz: Mama, I'm pretty.
Mrs. Johnson: I knew you were a good catch.
Candace:Thanks Mrs. Johnson.
Jeremy: I didn't know you were helping out my mom. You made quite an impression on her.
Candace: Well, I guess you could say I am having a good bad hair day.

(Switches to the Danville Endangered Tangerine Orangutan Reserve)
(Song: With a Dart)
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I'm blurry and I'm drowsy, but balladry beckons ♪
♪ Though, I might loose consciousness in 17 seconds ♪
♪ Don't know my location, I'm not sure that I care ♪
♪ But, I think I'm in a jungle and I'm covered in hair ♪
♪ If you want to know why, please refer to the chart ♪
♪ I've been shot in the butt with a dart ♪
♪ I've been shot in the-- ♪
(Doofenshmirtz passes out)



(Show Flynn-Fletcher house exterior)
Linda: (to Candace) So you and Stacy are going to a "Rock-n-Roll" memorabilia auction?
(Cut to Candace's room)
Candace: (to Linda) Well, yeah. They are gonna be auctioning off one of the original Tiny Cowboy bobble heads. (Flicks the Cowboy hat bobble-head) The lefty one.
Linda: So I guess I won't be seeing you at the annual Danville Meatloaf Festival?
Candace: No. What's a Meatloaf Festival?
Linda: Oh, that's right! You were away at camp last summer when I won this! (takes out "Meatloaf Queen" crown)
Candace: Meatloaf Queen? (doubtfully) Wow. That's pretty fancy.
Linda: (puts crown on) And because my meatloaf was voted best at the festival last year, I have the honor of being one of the judges this year.
Candace: So, you have the honor of eating other people's meatloaf all day?
Linda: Yup. I'm living the dream!
(In the backyard, Buford carries Baljeet over, gasping for breath)
Phineas: What happened?
Buford: We were just...at the bounce house...down at the Meatloaf Festival...and...and I was there, you know, having a good time, and suddenly...
(As he says this, we see a flashback of Buford at the bounce house, he suddenly bursts it with his feet)
Buford: Later!
(The kids start yelling and chasing Buford angrily)
Buford: Dude! Gotta go!
(Switch back to reality)
Buford: And even though it was funny, I still kinda wish that the bounce house was still there. You know, for the little kids.
Phineas: Buford's right!
Buford: I am?
Phineas: Even though they're made for little kids, there's something about a bounce house that you can't resist. What if bounce houses were made for bigger kids?
Buford: Hey!
Phineas: Slightly bigger kids. And what if they just happened to be totally amazing? I stand before you today and I hereby declare that...that, uh, little help, Ferb?
(Ferb puts on a fan to make Phineas's speech more dramatic)
Phineas: That nobody has yet done justice to the bounce house concept, and that it is up to us to show the world what a bounce house can truly be. For if not us...then, who? If not now...when? And if not when, then...something else! Gentlemen, I know what we are going to do today! But first answer me this: Where's Perry?
(Inspirational music and fan shut down abruptly)
Phineas: No, seriously, where is he? I don't...I haven't seen him.
(In Agent P's lair...)
Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. We've recently found surveillance footage of Doofenshmirtz buying fresh produce. We've concluded there are two possibilities. Either he's up to something sinister that is food related, or he's cooking dinner 'cause he's got a beautiful woman coming over and he wants to imp...never mind, it's obviously the first thing.
(In the backyard, Ferb is inflating a bounce house that he and Phineas just made)
Baljeet: Very impressive.
Phineas: Just a little bit more, Ferb.
(Ferb inflates more air, the bounce house increases in size)
Phineas: That's about right.
(At the meatloaf festival...)
Linda: Wow, Jamie Oliver. I can't believe we've got one of England's most famous chefs for our little Meatloaf Festival.
Jamie: Brilliant! It's a pleasure to be here.
Linda: Yes. This year we've expanded our venue. We have twenty-nine meatloaf flavored ice cream, as well as various meatloaf-themed attractions and rides.
Jamie: So, what exactly is "meatloaf"?
Linda: Oh, it's made of meat, it's got bread and onions.
Jamie: Ah! So it's a beverage.
Linda: Well, no. But it's sort of like shepherd's pie, except there's no potatoes or vegetables in it. You know, in the shape of a loaf.
Jamie: You put pepper in it?
Linda: If you want.
Jamie: Oh, meatloaf!
(Perry sees Doofenshmirtz's shadow on a tent. He pulls back the curtains, but there's only a strange bird shaped like Doofenshmirtz's head. Perry gets trapped with his foot in a rope suddenly)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha ha ha, welcome, Perry the Platypus! I never thought you'd fall for the old "distract Perry the Platypus with a weird bird" trap. I gotta say though, it's uh...it's quite an ugly bird. And now, for something a little more confining. (puts Perry in a clear box) You like it? It's biodegradable. A biodegradable trap. You know how everyone says, "if you don't like meatloaf, it's probably because you haven't tasted my meatloaf"? Well, it's true, because mine really is the best!
(Perry folds his arms, annoyed)
Doofenshmirtz: In fact, I come from a long line of great meatloaf chefs. The recipe was first created by my great, great grandmother Gretel Doofenshmirtz, who passed it down to my grandpa, José Doofenshmirtz, weird story there. Then he passed it down to my mom, who passed it down to...Roger. Ugh! Naturally, I had to steal it from him. And when I did, I finally found out what the secret ingredient was. The secret ingredient was hate. Usually it's love, but Great Grandma Gretel had some issues. With this recipe, I'm sure to win the Danville Meatloaf Festival! But just in case, I have the Rotten-inator! With a quick blast of this, my competitors' meatloaves will be completely rotten! My victory is guaranteed!
(Phineas, Ferb, Buford and Baljeet are boarding the bounce house)
Buford: Oh, man! This is awesome!
Phineas: And that's not the half of it. We're gonna fill it with helium. (turns on a helium machine)
Baljeet: Hey Buford! We are going to float like little woodland pixies!
Buford: You're never gonna let me live that down, are you?
Phineas: Okay, everybody, let's bounce.
Buford: Way ahead of ya!
(Song: Quirky Worky Song)
(the kids bounce through the house for several seconds)
(Cut to the Rock n Roll Mememorabilia Auction)
Auctioneer: The next item up for bid is this lovely Mona Lisa reproduction made entirely out of recycled guitar picks from the Paisley Sideburn Brothers. Shall we start the bidding at $10?
(Candace notices the bounce house out the window)
Candace: (to a posh woman) Excuse me? May I borrow these for a moment?
(The woman hands over her opera glasses)
Candace: Thank you! (looks through the glasses and sees the kids) Phineas and Ferb?! (at Stacy) Stacy, I'm gonna skip over my dramatic agonizing about whether I can resist the urge to bust my brothers and, I'm just gonna give you my $70, my auction paddle, and tell you to do the best you can to get that bobble head. (gives the woman back her opera glasses) Oh, here.
Posh woman: Thank you.
Candace: Seriously? Who brings opera glasses to an auction?
Posh Woman: I'm at an auction?
(Candace runs outside and grabs onto a rope from the bounce house. She holds on tight, dodging obsticles such as a traffic jam and bridge)
Candace: (dials phone) Talk to me, Stacy! How we doing?
Stacy: Okay, Candace, this is all the money you gave me, so this is my final bid.
Auctioneer: $70. Do I hear 75? $70 going once. 70 going twice. Oh, wait, we got 75 from the weird guy in the back.
Candace: Noooo!!! (splashes through fountain and coughs) Stacy, I found 37 cents! Raise the bid! Hello? Oh, stupid non-waterproof cell phones!
(Perry starts to use the smallest grappling hook to escape)
Doofenshmirtz: And with this garnish, I leace nothing to chance. Ha ha ha! The meatloaf is complete. (doesn't see Perry escape) Ooh, there's the judges. I'd better zap that guy's meatloaf. (tries to zap the meatloaf but zaps Perry's box, rotting it) I rotted the trap? OH, I should've never made that out of biodegradable materials! Stupid Mother Earth! (Perry punches him) For that, I'll turn you rotten, then perhaps you'll stop annoying me! (repeatedly fires the Rotten-inator)
Cucumber saleslady: Fresh cucumbers! (the cucumbers get zapped, and she changes the sign) Fresh pickles!
Old man: This novel is so riveting. (the novel gets zapped) Oh, what a rotten ending.
Milk man: Here's some refreshing milk.
(the milk gets zapped)
Girl: Eww! It's curdled!
Milk man: Well, I can fix that, here's a spoon.
Buford: Hey! We're over the Meatloaf Festival! Anybody else hungry?
(the Rotten-inator hits the rope, causing Candace to fall)
Chef: I don't know. It still needs something.
(Candace falls into the meatloaf bowl)
Candace: It need paprika.
Chef: Well, how much?
Buford: Time to eat! (slides down the rope, hanging on the end)
Phineas: Buford's pulling us down.
Baljeet: How is that possible? He weighs no more down there than he did up here!
Ferb: It's probably best not to question.
(Buford lands on the ground. Phineas, Ferb and Baljeet slide down the rope)
Phineas: Oh, boy, meatloaf on a stick? Let's go.
Buford: You guys go ahead. I'll catch up with ya.
Phineas: Okay, see ya in a few!
Baljeet: Buford, what are you up to?
Buford: I got something I need to do. (to the kids from earlier) Hey, shrimplets! I've got something for you.
(Doofenshmirtz is still repeatedly firing the Rotten-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, aren't you getting tired of this? Hold still! I'll --
(He suddenly zaps his meatloaf, turning it rotten)
Doofenshmirtz: OH, NO! MY MEEEATLOOOAAAF! You know, I've noticed how often my inators hit things that I never intended them to hit? It's quite often...
(Perry punches Doofenshmirtz, causing him to release the Rotten-inator. He catches it)
Doofenshmritz: Perry the Platypus, give me that back.
(Perry throws the Rotten-inator into the blender, causing it to be destroyed)
Doofenshmirtz: AHH! Oh, and you had to put it on "puree", didn't you? CURSE YOU, PERRY THE PLATYPUS!
(Linda and Jamie arrive at Doofenshmirtz's booth)
Linda: All right, Jamie, how about this booth?
Jamie: UGH!
Linda: Ew! This is rancid!
Jamie: I can't believe I'm saying this, but some kind of preservatives in this meatloaf would've been a blessing.
(Linda places a "disqualified" sign on the meatloaf and they walk off)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait a minute. Disqualified? OHHH! It can't possibly be that bad, let me try it. (eats meatloaf and moans) Yes, someone's gonna have to...call the...paramedics, I think.
(at the bounce house...)
Baljeet: Buford, I have never seen this side of you before. I am very proud.
Buford: Yeah...
(Buford suddenly sticks a pin in the bounce house, popping it)
Baljeet: I retract my former statement.
Buford: Shall we be going? (carries Baljeet) Yep! (laughs)
Balthazar: Get him!
(The kids run after Buford just as before)
(Candace walks up to Linda, angry and dirty)
Linda: Hi, Candace. Eww! What have you got all over you?
Candace: A late entry. Okay, Mom, I've been dragged all over town by Phineas and Ferb's Mega Bounce House, which you'll probably never see, but the worst part is, I didn't even get my Tiny Cowboy bobble head!
Linda: What you need is an award winning meatloaf. This is Nigel and Adrian, they're this year's Meatloaf Kings!
Candace: Nigel and Adrian?! You're Tiny Cowboy! What are you doing here?
Nigel: Well, isn't it obvious? We're here for the meatloaf. Music is great and all, but our one true passion is meatloaf.
Linda: Wait. Nigel and Adrian are...? Are you sure? They're not tiny. And, come on, you're not even cowboys.
Candace: Mom, you're embarassing me!
Nigel: Candace, could we interest you in some of the world's greatest meatloaf?
Candace: Uh, don't mind if I do! Is it vegetarian?
(pause)
Adrian: It's got "meat" actually, in the name.
Candace: Just kidding! (eats meatloaf)
(Tiny Cowboy begins to perform)
(Song: Meatloaf)
Nigel: ♪ Ground beef and breadcrumbs, some onions and an egg ♪
Adrian: ♪ My mouth is watering so please don't make me beg ♪
Nigel/Adrian: ♪ I know everybody's got their tastes and that's just fine ♪
Nigel: ♪ But if you say that you don't like it, then you've never tasted mine ♪
♪ I'm talkin' 'bout meatloaf (meatloaf) ♪
♪ So moist and savory, it's beef that's shaped like bread ♪
Adrian: ♪ Don't know what that aroma's doing in my head ♪
Nigel/Adrian/Candace/Stacy: ♪ Whatever we don't eat we'll discreetly put away ♪
♪ But never fear, my meatloaf, we'll eat again someday ♪
♪ I'm talkin' 'bout meatloaf, I'm a meatloaf lover ♪
♪ I'll tell your brother, yeah, don't need no other ♪
♪ Talkin' 'bout (meatloaf) meatloaf, meatloaf lover ♪
♪ Warms you from the inside like it's made by your mother ♪
♪ Talkin' 'bout meatloaf (meatloaf, yeah) ♪
♪ We're talkin' 'bout meatloaf (meatloaf, yeah) ♪
♪ We're talkin' bout meatloaf (meatloaf, yeah, yeah, yeah) ♪
(Back with Doofenshmirtz, who's being taken away by the paramedics)
Doofenshmirtz: Ugh, I knew I shouldn't eaten that -- wait, is that Tiny Cowboy?
(the ambulence takes Doofenshmirtz away)

End Credits
(Song: Meatloaf)
♪ Talkin' 'bout (meatloaf) meatloaf, meatloaf lover ♪
♪ Warms you from the inside like it's made by your mother ♪
♪ Talkin' 'bout meatloaf (meatloaf, yeah) ♪
♪ We're talkin' 'bout meatloaf (meatloaf, yeah) ♪
♪ We're talkin' bout meatloaf (meatloaf, yeah, yeah, yeah) ♪



(Scene starts with Candace talking to Stacy on the phone)
Candace: (on the phone) That's what going steady is, Stacy! Jeremy and I aren't really engaged. But we're totally engaged to be engaged to be engaged. And by the way, that's on a "need-to-know" basis. Oh, why would Jeremy need to know?
Linda: Hey hon, I was just reading this article about mothers and daughters, and really listening to your teen. And I realized I've hardly seen you all summer, so for the whole day today, it's you and me. Whatever you want to do, I'm all yours. Anything at all.
Candace: Wait a minute, anything? (on the phone) Stacy, I'll call you back.
(Phineas and Ferb are eating popcorn)
Isabella: Hi guys! Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Watching grass grow.
Isabella: (giggles) No, really. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Did you know that the secret of success for grass growth is establishing a regular fertilizer schedule? We can make you a copy.
Isabella: Um... I'm good.
Baljeet: Hello! Greetings from the thing with two heads! (silence) Nothing? (sighs)
Buford: I told you sight gags were cheap.
Isabella: They're watching grass grow.
Buford: What, with like a super growth formula or somethin'?
Isabella: Oh, that must be it. That's it, right?
Phineas: Well, no. Grass is already so interesting, why bother?
Candace: Come on, mom! Let's set up! I can't wait to see your face when they get going. Just watch.
(silence)
Linda: You want me to bust them now?
Candace: Give it a few minutes.
Isabella: Hey, what's that?
Phineas: Lint roller. (rolls it over Ferb) Platypus hair. Hmm, that reminds me. Where's Perry?
(Perry arrives)
All but Ferb: Oh there you are, Perry!
(Phineas rolls it again over Ferb)
Baljeet: Um, can we up the action a bit here?
Phineas: Okay. Ferb.
(Ferb brings out another roller and the two roll it)
Buford: If this keeps up, you're gettin' back in the shirt!
Linda: How about... Now?
Candace: Hold on. (approaches them) What are you guys up to?
Phineas: Just enjoying the wonderful world of lint.
Candace: Come on, who do you think you're foolin'?
Phineas: Nobody. (rolls it again)
Candace: What the heck is wrong with these two?
Buford: It's like they were hit with a Dull-and-Boring Ray.
(Perry's eyes widen, and slowly crawls to his hideout)
Carl: Okay, Agent P, I've got the surveillance tape from earlier today.
Doofenshmirtz: (on the video, singing in the bathroom) ♪ ...Egg-laying, mammal of action... Doo doo doo doo... ♪
Carl: I'll fast forward.
Doofenshmirtz: (on the video) Perry the Platypus? (gets kicked) Aaaah!
(fast forward)
Behold! The Dull-and-Boring Inator!
(fast forward)
(Perry destroyed the Inator) Curse you, Perry the Platypus!
(rewind and pause, revealing that the Inator fired before it was destroyed)
Carl: Wow, who knew? Sure hope you didn't hit an innocent civilian.
Candace: Why aren't they doing anything? I've got a golden opportunity here and I don't wanna blow it! Hehhehh... (waves at Linda)
Isabella: Guys, what would you rather do? Watch paint dry or lasso wild dolphins and ride em' across the high seas?
Phineas: What color paint? Can it be beige? (in background) Oh, but we do already have one paint color for today, a second might be a little, self indulging.
Isabella: (gasps) This can't be happening! Baljeet, you speak boring. See if you can do anything.
Baljeet: (offended) Oh, I speak boring! And getting your Whittling patch is so exciting!
Buford: Meow. Catfight!
Baljeet: So, nice weather we are having.
Phineas: You know, I was just saying to Ferb that the atmosphere pressure seems a bit low today which would suggest cloudy skies, yet it's completely sunny. Although, it would be interesting to take an exact barometric reading.
(Baljeet gets bored, in trance)
Did you know that while meteorologists used millibars to chart atmospheric pressure, a barometer has a second scale or ring which reads in hectopascals? Of course, it doesn't matter what measure you choose when your barometer doesn't have its sensory range factory set for use in elevation. Apparently, you could get your drawings from the Internet, which has a wealth of...
(Baljeet gets "hypnotized")
Isabella: Oh no! Baljeet's in trouble. I've got to get him out of there. (pulls Baljeet) Baljeet, focus! Come back.
Baljeet: I have never gone so far into deep dull before. (hears Buford talking) Save... Buford...
Buford: (in background) The sun is on the meridian and the wind is blowing out of the southeast (onscreen) and temperature is the perfect balmy 75°. (Isabella slaps him) Whoa! Thanks, Isabella.
Phineas: And so, all in all, I would say it's great weather we're having.
Candace: Houston, we have a problem.
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry arrives)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? I mean, I wasn't crying... And what are you doing here anyway? What, destroying my Dull-and-Boring Inator once wasn't enough for you? Wait, what were you... Wait, you're fixing it? You ARE fixing it... Oh, you've had a change of heart! How wonderful! Go ahead, rebuild it, Perry the Platypus. Actually, you're doing it all wrong, if you put it together that way, it will be the reverse of a Dull-and-Boring Inator. It would be a Dynamic-inator which would make people more interesting. (gasps) Oh, I get it! We shoot me with the Dynamic-inator, I become more interesting and everyone else becomes duller by comparison. Oh, that's brilliant! I'm so glad I thought of it! Let's build it, come on, let's go.
Candace: Okay. This is your pile of buildy stuff. This is what you liked to do before you became boring. Now take this. (hands hammer to Ferb) Well? Let's get this thing going! Do your stuff! You, here! (hands a plank and spring to Phineas)
Phineas: A funny fact about springs...
Candace: Phineas, come on! What is wrong with you guys?
Linda: Candace?
Candace: Mom...
Linda: How about if I go get some lunch and bring it back for us?
Candace: No, no, no, stay, stay! I'm really enjoying this quality time with you. (kisses her)
Linda: Me too, sweetie!
Candace: Are they doing anything yet?
Baljeet: No, but we did find this blueprint.
Phineas: Hey... I know what we're gonna do today!
(everyone smiles)
We're gonna watch golf on television!
Candace: What? Okay, we got to jump-start these guys.

Doofenshmirtz: We make a great team, don't we? I think we make a great team, do you think we make a great team? (Perry continues fixing the machine without a glance at Doofenshmirtz) Yeah, you do. I can tell.

(Song: "Blueprints")
Baljeet: ♪ With these blueprints we can make a mighty tower, ♪
Isabella: ♪ With these blueprints we can mold a chocolate ball!, ♪
Buford: ♪ With these blueprints we can forge enormous yo-yos, ♪
Buford and Candace: ♪ With these prints we can build anything at all! ♪

Doofenshmirtz: ♪ We've got blueprints, glorious blueprints! ♪
♪ They give us endless potentialities! ♪
♪ We could build an android porcupine, ♪
♪ bionic hearts for Valentines, ♪
♪ or giant dogs with artificial fleas! ♪

Candace: ♪ 'Cause we've got blueprints! ♪
Baljeet, Buford, Candace, Isabella: ♪ Glorious blueprints! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪They make the things we dream reality! ♪
Baljeet, Buford, Candace, Isabella: ♪ We can build jet powered water wings, ♪
♪ a catapult with mattress springs, ♪
♪ and practically anything you see! ♪
Candace, Isabella, Baljeet, Doofenshmirtz, Buford: ♪ We've got one prints, two prints, ♪
♪ nothing we can't do prints! ♪
♪ Three prints, four prints, ♪
♪ everyday it's more prints! ♪
♪ Five prints, six prints, ♪
♪ nothing we can't fix prints! ♪
♪ Big prints, small prints, ♪
♪ make anything at all prints! ♪
♪ There's nothing we can't do, ♪
♪ as long as they're blue! ♪
♪ So get some hammers and nails, ♪
♪ and buckets and pails! ♪
♪ So grab a two-by-four, ♪
♪ 'Cause we've got blueprints galore! ♪
♪We've got a lot of work to do!♪
Baljeet: ♪ With these prints that are blue! ♪
(revealed a small object made from a blueprint)
Buford: It seemed bigger when we were singin'.
Baljeet: Do the two little lines mean feet or inches?
Linda: Hi kids, did you build a little castle? That's adorable. Candace, should I do it now? (acting) Boys! You are SO busted! Feel the burn!
Phineas: I've always liked pointing.
Linda: Me too, sweetie. Well I'm going inside to make some snacks. Any requests?
Phineas: Ooh, plain oatmeal.
Candace: Wait, no, mom! Grrrrr! The one time it actually could've worked! But no, they had to be boring! And we had to build a stupid, worthless, ridiculous... (steps on the object which is actually a rocket and she flies around) AAAAAAHHH!!
Baljeet: I told you I knew what I was doing!
Candace: (continues to fly) AAAAAAHHH!!
Isabella: Hurry! There's no time to lose!
Phineas: (being carried by Buford) Hey Ferb, did you ever notice that the sidewalk is filled with little sparky bits?
Buford: Tune it out, big guy!
Candace: (flying in circles) Stupid... New age... Parenting... Articles... AAAAHH! Get me down from here, I can't control this thing!
Isabella: She's in some sort of holding pattern.
Baljeet: Good, we will just wait here and eventually, the fuel will run out. (Isabella and Buford look at him) Ohh... And she will plummet to...yeah...
Buford: Maybe we should get a ladder.
Doofenshmirtz: Yes! The Dynamic-inator is finished! And I couldn't have done it without you, new partner. Now if you'll be kind enough to point it to my face and blast me, I'll be the most fascinating and charming person in the Tri-State area! And then maybe we'll go to a movie or something.
(Perry shakes his head)
What do you mean no? Hand me the remote!
(Perry shakes his head)
Oh, Perry the Platypus, look at us! We're fighting over the remote like an old married couple! Hahaha. It's not cute. And I have a remote too; I'm going to get my own talk show!
(Perry pressed the button)
What are you... You're pointing it at the suburbs! My face is over here.
(both are pressing buttons)
I want you to shoot me. Hey, stop that! OH, you're just so difficult sometimes!
Isabella: Phineas, Candace's fuel is running out! You have to think of a way to save her!
Phineas: We love thinking. In fact, we were just thinking about how much we loved the flavor of water. And how come there's no water-flavored ice cream.
Baljeet: Actually, that would be because...
Isabella and Buford: (before he finishes) Baljeet!
Doofenshmirtz: Fine! Point it wherever you want, baby. I'll be there. (crawls onto the machine so that it would hit him when it fired) Say hello to the new dynamic... (Perry hits him with an uppercut)
(the Dynamic-inator activates)
Phineas: ...and that in a nutshell, is the history of checkers. But it's far from the first board game, in fact...
(the Dynamic-inator gets destroyed)
Isabella: Phineas, Candace is going to fall and only you can save her!
Phineas: Okay, we have some wood, some springs, and some tubing, but none of those things will break her fall.
Isabella: Come on, guys! Do what you do better than anybody else! Get creative!
Phineas: (eyes narrow and takes a position of thinking, as does Ferb) Creative...
Candace: AAAAAHH!
Isabella, Baljeet and Buford: (at different times) Come on, guys! Let's go! You can do it! Come on guys!
Candace: Phineas, help me!
Buford: I still think we should get a ladder.
Phineas: (the effects of the Dull-and-Boring Inator wear off) No, that would be... Boring. Wait a minute... I know what we should've done today! Ferb, grab some wood! Isabella, hammer and nails! Buford, lift something heavy! Baljeet, lift something light! The day is still young! Hang on, Candace, we're coming for you!
Candace: AAAAAHH!! Hang on to what?
Doofenshmirtz: You never meant to work with me, did you, Perry the heartbreaker? Yes, go. Go back to your agency with their...Their uncool acronyms! Just remember, we once had something special!
Candace: It's running out... And my foot is slipping... (falls) Aaaahh... Huh? (realizes she landed on a giant slide)
(Song: "Gotta Make Summer Last")
♪ Summer, I love summer, ♪
♪ Give me that summer time... ♪
(in the middle of the song)
Phineas: (sighs) It's good to be back.
Ferb: Yes, yes it is.
Candace: AAAAAHHH!! (lands on a soft cushion)
All: Yes! Yeah! Wooohoo!
Phineas: Nice work, gang!
Candace: No, not nice work. You humiliate me all day long by being boring, then you think you could make up for that by giving me a super fun ride on the world's greatest crazy slide? (pause) Okay, you get a pass for saving my life. Maybe there's a little time for mom and me to get our toes done.
(Cut back to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Candace: Mom, mom!
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
Candace: Mom! (opens the door and sees Linda in a Broadway costume)
(Song: "Snacks")
Linda: ♪ What do you do when hunger attacks? ♪
♪ Fill your stomach up to the max, ♪
♪ So, not talking Tuff Gum, ♪
♪ Don't ever shrink from ♪
♪ How would you like some snacks? ♪
♪ (Snacks!) ♪
Buford: Wow, it's like your mom was hit by a Dynamic Ray or something.
(Perry's eyes widened again and slowly backs away)
(at DEI building, Perry knocks at the door with tools with him)
Doofenshmirtz: Really?



(Scene opens up showing Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Radio DJ: Good morning, Danville! It's a beautiful day, so let's get out there and be happy!
(Alarm goes off)
(Song: "Gumshine and Bubble Sun")
Male Singer: ♪ Bum, bum, bum, bum, bum ♪
♪ Sunshine and bubblegum, happiness, here comes the sun ♪
♪ Sunshine, happiness and gum ♪
♪ Gumshine and bubblesun, happiness, we're having fun ♪
♪ Happiness, sunshine and gum ♪
♪ Go ahead and move with feeling, you can even dance (You can dance) ♪
♪ If you can feel it, go ahead and scream ♪
♪ If you're worried about the sound, you can always scream into a pillow ♪
Norm: Good morning, sir!
Doofenshmirtz: Ugh.
Norm: (Takes the egg carton and spills the eggs onto a pan) One egg or two?
Doofenshmirtz: None! I don't like them the way you cook 'em. You always leave in the shells! Who does that?
Norm: (Tosses the eggs) I like mine crunchy. (The eggs land on the pan, showing its components scattered on the stove. Doofenshmirtz's laptop beeps)
Doofenshmirtz: Just keep quiet over there. I got a call from Rodney. (Doofenshmirtz answers) What do you want, Rodney?
Rodney: I thought I'd share with you the progress on my new Super Zap-Inizer. (Turns the webcam) My son, Orville, helped me. He's a true evil genius. (Turns the webcam back to himself) I'm so glad I have a son who can assist me in my work and help me become a better evil scientist, instead of a daughter who can, (Sniffs) I don't know, go shopping, I guess? Is that what it's like, Heinz?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh that's ridiculous, Rodney. (Stammers) What you'd have me believe is that daughters (Vanessa walks in) are useless, and if only I had a son instead of a daughter, I'd be much more successful, and my life would be so much better. (Notices Vanessa, who walks off) Wait—No, Vanessa-- (Gets up) No, wait—Wait! How long have you been standing there—Vanessa? (Vanessa walks into a room) Vanessa, honey! Oh I can't believe that she would think that I-- (Walks back to the desk) I mean, it sure would be nice to have a son in addition. (Sits down) You know, someone to have a nice game of catch with, but--
Norm: Sir, you can have a game of catch with me! I've always thought of you as my fa--
Doofenshmirtz: Norm, you're in my light!
(Norm's mouth turns around, looking sad)
Norm: --Ther.
(In the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Isabella: Hey Phineas! Whatcha doin'?
(Buford and Baljeet walk in)
Phineas: (Runs on-screen, wiping his hands) Well, you know one of those little spring suction cup (Puts the cloth in his pocket) things that you push down and you never know when it's gonna pop up in the air?
Isabella: Yeah, what are those things called, anyway?
Phineas: I don't know. But Ferb and I built a big one!
(Camera pans to Ferb, with the complete invention. A fanfare plays)
Buford: Hey look! It's one of those things!
Baljeet: Yes! A big one!
(Instrumental of Phineas and Ferb Theme plays)
Phineas: Everybody in!
(The gang boards the invention. Camera pans to Candace, watching. The spring suction cup pushes down itself)
Isabella: So when's it gonna pop?
Phineas: That's the fun part. You'll never know when it's gonna take off! Hey, where's--
(The spring suction cup takes off)
(In Perry's lair...)
Major Monogram: I don't know what happened, Carl, but our cafeteria officially stinks.
Carl: Sir, I don't think you're being fair.
Major Monogram: Oh Mexican food station is gone, Carl... VANISH!
Carl: They still have the chili...
Major Monogram: Oh, right! Because chili is a perfect substitute for a nice touchy-taco. It's practically the same thing! (at Perry) Agent P, you're... here! Uhmm... Our inter-web monitor tells us that Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been video conference thing with the other members of the evil organization; L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. It's obviously they're planning something big, but right now we have our hands full with this all cafeteria day debacle... so! Get out there and put a stop to it! Good luck, Agent P (Agent P salutes) .... Carl! We're going off the lot for lunch.
Carl: Is that allowed sir?
Major Monogram: Noo... (sigh)
(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Isabella: That was great Phineas!
Baljeet: Yes! Let us do that again!
Phineas: Ferb, let's reset it.
(In Candace's room...)
Candace: There they go again... their machine mocking me... (imitating Phineas) "Oh, hi, I'm Phineas! Ferb and I are gonna do something totally bust-worthy!" (in her own voice) "Yeah, like what? A submarine that'll go into my esophagus?"
Stacy: Candace, what are you doing?
Candace: Nothing. Did you bring the hypnotism stuff?
Stacy: If you mean the pocket watch, then yes. Why do you want to do this, Candace?
Candace: I have to meet Jeremy in the park today, but I can't go unless I get this busting out of my head!
Stacy: But hypnotism? It's just so 1843 of you.
Candace: 1843?
Stacy: You know, 1843 when James Braid published the "Rationale of Somnambulism" in which he invented the term "hypnotism", named after the Greek god, Hypnos.
Candace: (In a stunned tone) How do you even know that?
Stacy: It's written on your poster. Apparently he also invented the comb-over. Freaky.
Candace: (Still stunned) Why would I have bought that poster?
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (to Perry) Oh this is terrible, look at her, look what I've done. (Gestures at Vanessa sitting on a chair at the balcony) She's been giving me the cold shoulder ever since she overheard something out of context. This is like one of those sitcoms where somebody says something that's misconstrued and the snooty next door neighbor got the wrong package delivered after his in-laws come to visit, somebody has two dates at one night and they have to paint white lines on the middle of the room, but this isn't a sitcom, Perry the Platypus, this is real life. (pauses, as he and Perry glanced at the fourth wall) And... I'm... And I'm the father, and I have to treat her with the respect that she deserves in a caring fatherly fashion. (pause) I'll blast her with one of my inators! Wait here (goes to drag the inator) You like it, Perry the Platypus? I built it for the 170th anniversary of the Alamo, but I forgot to use it! It makes people forget about what they're thinking right at that moment, call it the Forget-About-It-inator! Heheh, I love that name. (starts trying out different tones) Forget about it. Forget about it. Forget about it! Haha, forget about it! (to Perry's face) Forget about it! (turns to Norm) How 'bout a handshake, (swings his hand) forget about it!
Norm: (as he leaves) If only I were a real boy.
(Back in Candace's room. Stacy is shaking the pocket watch and Candace is cross-eyed)
Stacy: (in a slow voice) You are nooooow entering a deeeeep sleeeeep...
Candace: (monotone) Deeeep sleeeep...
Stacy: What? Sweet! It's working. Candace, when you hear the trigger word, um, (cut to poster that says "Holy Guacamole") "holy guacamole", you will no longer have the desire to bust Phineas and Ferb.
Candace: No more busting my brothers...
Stacy: And when you hear (cut to poster that says "Leapin' Lizards") "leaping lizards", it'll make you return to normal.
Candace: Return to normal...
Stacy: Now, when I snap my fingers, you will awaken with no recollection of being hypnotized. Do you understand, Candace?
Candace: No...
Stacy: No? What's not to understand?
Candace: A brief recap might be helpful...
Stacy: Candace, "holy guacamole" - no busting, "leaping lizards" - back to normal. (Snaps fingers and Candace comes out of hypnotic trance.)
Candace: I don't know, Stacy. I don't think it worked. I still want Phineas and Ferb to go down, down, do-
Stacy: (Interrupting Candace) Holy guacamole.
Candace: What was I talking about?
Stacy: I think you're ready for you're date with Jeremy.
Candace: Ooh! Who's Jeremy?
Stacy: Uh-oh. I think something went wrong.
Candace: I'm just kidding.
Stacy and Candace: Ahh!
(Song: "Real Boy")
♪ Women Singers: He wants to be a real boy (He wants to be a real boy)♪
♪ He wants to be a real boy (Real boy, yeah) ♪
♪ Norm: I'm a lonely orphan robot ♪
♪ Just a scrap metal tower ♪
♪ A misfired piston ♪
♪ Run on squirrel power ♪
♪ Women Singers: His galvanized insides ♪
♪ Can feel no joy ♪
♪ He wants to be a real boy ♪
♪ Norm: I wanna be a real boy! ♪
♪ Rappers: Yeah! ♪
♪ Norm: Not a titanium toy ♪
♪ Don't give my battery flattery ♪
♪ What I want is more gray matter-y ♪
♪ Rappers: A brain, some veins, and some arteries! ♪
♪ Norm: I got a squirrel on a treadmill where my heart should be ♪
♪ If I was real, ♪
♪ Rappers: You could feel! ♪
♪ I could really emote ♪
♪ Instead of shorting out whenever he sits on the remote ♪
♪ I want a dad ♪
♪ Rappers: A father! ♪
♪ Norm: Someone I can call pop ♪
♪ Someone to take me out for malteds at the soda shop ♪
♪ Someone to take me on a fishing trip or teach me how to ride a bike ♪
♪ Who'll pat me on the head and ask me "how you doin', tyke?" ♪
♪ Women Singers and Rappers: How you doin', tyke? ♪
♪ Norm: Oh, I'm fine, all things considered ♪
♪ Wanna be a real boy but I don't wanna sound embittered ♪
♪ But thanks for asking, seriously!
(Cut to Candace and Jeremy at the park)
Jeremy: You know what I'd like to do, Candace? I'd like to rent one of those little boats.
Candace: Sure. Good idea.
Jeremy: Great. Let's go before you--
Candace: Before I rush off to bust Phineas and Ferb?
Jeremy: Well...
Candace: Jeremy, I no longer have the desire to bust my brothers. We can take our time. (A lizard hops by. Candace notices it.) Whoa, look at that.
Jeremy: (Laughs) What do you know? Some sort of reptile hopping around. Hi little hopping reptile. Hi little jumping chameleon. Hi little springing salamander.
(Balthazar walks by and notices the lizard.)
Balthazar: Leaping lizards!
(Candace suddenly gets up and leaves.)
Jeremy: Oh yeah. Yeah, funny I didn't think of that one. (Notices that Candace is running away.) Candace? Candace?
Candace: (Running) Sorry, Jeremy! I've got to bust my brothers!
Jeremy: Ah, that's my girl. Looks like it's just you and me, little galavanting gecko.
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, Vanessa. I just need to take a picture of you because ... I love you and I don't need a son.
Vanessa: (Removing headphones) Did you say something, dad?
Doofenshmirtz: What? You're wearing headphones? So you haven't heard a thing I've said all day?
Vanessa: Why do you think I wear the headphones?
Doofenshmirtz: So you're not mad at me for saying I'd rather have a son than a daughter like you.
Vanessa: What?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, nothing, nothing. Just put these back on. (Puts headphones back in her ears.) There you go.
Vanessa: Whatever.
Doofenshmirtz: (Walking back to Perry and his Inator) What about that? She didn't hear me. I'm still a great dad. And the sitcom cliche has been resolved. I guess I didn't need this inator after all. Say, here's a thought. How about if I blast you instead?
(Norm walks up.)
Norm: Sir, I just want you to know that I've always thought of you as my father.
Doofenshmirtz: Look, Norm. This is going to have to wait. I have to blast Perry the Platypus and I'll be right with you.
(As Doofenshmirtz was talking to Norm, Perry turned the inator around so it was pointing at Doofenshmirtz. Doofenshmirtz looks into the inator and turns it on.)
Doofenshmirtz: (To Norm.) Now, who are you?
Norm: I am ... your ... son! (Pause) Yeah!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, really? (Turns to Perry) And what's that?
Norm: Don't worry, Dad, I'll get rid of it.
(Perry parachutes off the balcony.)
Doofenshmirtz: Funny, I don't seem to remember much.
Norm: You like playing ball with me, your son.
Doofenshmirtz: Really? I like that?
Norm: Yes.
Doofenshmirtz: What else do I like?
Norm: Crunchy eggs for breakfast.
Doofenshmirtz: I do? Man, what kind of weirdo am I?
(In the backyard, Phineas, Ferb, and their friends are still in their invention.)
Candace: (Running in through gate.) Phineas and Ferb!
Phineas: Hey, Candace!
Candace: I'm telling mom right now. (Running into the house.) Mom! Mom! (Crashing noises from inside.) Mom, you have to come out to the backyard.
Linda: Okay, give me a second.
(Candace runs back out to backyard, laughing.)
Phineas: Candace, do you want to go for a ride?
Candace: No, I'm good.
Linda: Alright, Candace. What was it that you wanted to show me-- (Notices invention.) Crimeny! What is that?
Phineas: Hi, Mom!
Candace: You see it! You see it! (The invention takes off) Phineas and Ferb are busted for sure.
Linda: Where's it going?
Candace: Oh, it'll come back down in just a little bit. Just in time for me to get my bust on.
(Back to Doofenschmirtz and Norm)
Doofenshmirtz: So what's this thing do? Ooh look, buttons! (Pushes buttons) Pushy, pushy! (Green ray comes out of inator)
Candace: --it comes down, that's great. We can bust Phineas and Ferb and be done in time for dinner.
(Memory erasing ray from Doofenshmirtz's inator hits Linda.)
Linda: So what did you want to show me, Candace?
(Invention lands.)
Candace: Uum, that.
Linda: Good heavens! What is that?
Candace: Like I said, Phineas and Ferb built it and its-- (Invention takes off again)
Linda: Where's it going?
Candace: It'll be back. And then it's busting time for sure, right Mom?
(Another ray from the inator hits Linda.)
Linda: Alright, Candace. So what was it you wanted to show me?
Doofenshmirtz: This is fun. Pushy, pushy, push the buttons. I'm pushing the buttons.
Norm: Sir. Sir.
(Another ray hits Linda.)
Linda: Alright, Candace. So what was it you wanted to show me? (Invention lands.) Holy guacamole! What is that?
Candace: Wait! Why did I leave Jeremy in the park? (Runs off.)
(Another ray hits Linda.)
Linda: (Noticing Perry.) Oh, there you are, Perry. (Perry chatters.)
Norm: Sir! It's overheating and it could-- (Inator explodes.)—explode.
Doofenshmirtz: Hey! Wait a minute. You're not my son. You're that walking junk pile, Norm.
Norm: But dad!
Doofenshmirtz: And I am not you're father. I'm fairly sure about that.
Norm: Bu-bu-bu-bu-but!
Vanessa: Here, Norm. (Gives him headphones.) Wear these. It helps.
Norm: Thanks, sis!
Vanessa: (Sarcastic) No problem, bro.
(Cut to Norm in closet listening to music. Doofenshmirtz opens the door and sticks his head in.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, buddy. Are you—are you busy?
Norm: No. Not really.
Doofenshmirtz: You know, Norm, it occurs to me that though I've never had a son, there is someone I can always count on to be there. Someone I've begun to think of as family.
Norm: Yes?
Doofenshmirtz: And that someone is Perry the Platypus. See you around, junkpile.
(Doofenshmirtz slams the closet door leaving Norm in the dark. Still wearing the headphones Vanessa gave him, Norm's frown flips around to a smile.)
Norm: Apology accepted, Dad.

End Credits
(Song: "Real Boy")
♪ If I was real, ♪
♪ Rappers: You could feel! ♪
♪ I could really emote ♪
♪ Instead of shorting out whenever he sits on the remote ♪
♪ I want a dad ♪
♪ Rappers: A father! ♪
♪ Norm: Someone I can call pop ♪
♪ Someone to take me out for malteds at the soda shop ♪
♪ Someone to take me on a fishing trip or teach me how to ride a bike ♪
♪ Who'll pat me on the head and ask me "how you doin', tyke?" ♪
♪ Women Singers and Rappers: How you doin', tyke? ♪
♪ Norm: Oh, I'm fine, all things considered ♪
♪ Wanna be a real boy but I don't wanna sound embittered ♪
♪ But thanks for asking, seriously! ♪



(Scene opens at the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Candace: (from inside) So, I was looking up at the stars, thinking about Jeremy... (Close-up of her, on her cell phone.) Only I was walking down the stairs at the time. (Her foot is in a cast.) And now I'm stuck in bed! Doctor's orders! If I re-injure it, I'll have to miss the Tiny Cowboy concert tomorrow! Backstage passes!
Linda: (outside the door) Candace!
Candace: See you soon, Stace. (closes cell phone)
Linda: (opens the door) Your father wants me to listen to one of his "soundscapes", so I figured I'd strap on the headphones and finally get those flowers planted in the backyard. Do you think you can entertain yourself up here alone?
Candace: Sure. Maybe I'll count useless limbs. (points to her injured foot) One.
Phineas: (as he and Ferb enters Candace's room) Don't bother! We've got the perfect cure for boredom!
Linda: Well, looks like things are under control here.
Candace: Don't bring that junk in here.
Phineas: It's not junk. It's cool stuff to play with so you don't succumb to cabin fever.
Candace: Please. A toy helicopter? Oh, and look! Mindy Mimic! Boring.
Mindy Mimic: Boring.
Phineas: Or you could do some reading! Ferb and I wrote a 28-volume science fiction, swashbuckling, historical romance, tell-all, potboiler, mystery, satire, buddy-cop adventure, tragedy, how-to, action novel.
Also, we rigged up this closed-circuit video screen for you. And then we planted cameras at strategic locations around the house. So, you can still be with the family while you're convalescing. This remote controls the camera and a few other surprises so you'll feel less, you know, imprisoned.
Candace: Thanks for that characterization.
Phineas: Oh, look, there's Dad!
Lawrence: (on the video screen; singing gibberish) Hey, where's Perry?
(Scene switches to Perry's lair, where he enters from an unknown entrance.)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. Doofenshmirtz has been buying up all the hard salami, kaiser rolls, pickles, roast beef, mustard, horseradish, sauerkraut, and pimento loaf in the Tri-State Area. We don't know what it means, but it sounds like a recipe for evil. (pause) Or at least an evil sandwich. Investigate at once!
(Perry pushes a button on the console and a rocket-powered hang-glider comes from its hiding place, which he uses to exit his lair.)
(In the backyard at the Flynn-Fletcher house, where Linda's planting flowers while listening to the "soundscapes".)
Isabella: Hi, Mrs. Flynn-Fletcher. What'cha doin? Um, I said...
(music playing)
Isabella: (as Baljeet and Buford enters the backyard) Rocking out with the headphones, huh?
Buford: Hey, what are you losers up to?
Phineas: It's cosmonaut Sergei Kushnarov's birthday. Right now, Sergei is orbiting Earth an international space station, trying to prove the existence of wormholes! And in a few hours, he'll be directly above our backyard.
Baljeet: I hope they do not void the sanitation system.
Buford: Is that the first place your brain goes? Really?
Phineas: Anyway, Ferb and I are constructing a Stratospheric Ionizer, to make a happy birthday message appear in the upper atmosphere.
Baljeet: Wow! Sounds high tech.
Phineas: It sure is! (at Ferb) Hey, Ferb, toss me that bone!
(Ferb picks up the bone, points at it, and then tosses it. It floats towards the atmosphere.)
(Meanwhile, in outer space...)
Cosmonaut 1: Hey, Sergei, are you still waiting to hear from your American friends? You're missing party right here.
(Camera shows Sergei's fellow cosmonauts celebrating his birthday.)
Cosmonaut 1: Have some cake.
Sergei: (gasps)
Cosmonaut 1: Relax. Flame is cardboard. (flicks cardboard candle away) I'm not an idiot. Now, come. It's your party.
Sergei: I will join you soon, comrades. Phineas and Ferb said I should watch the skies for a special message. (camera pans out to show space station) Those boys are so thoughtful.
(In Candace's room)
Stacy: Oh, look at it, all swollen and useless. You are one sorry, laid-up, mummy-footed bed potato.
Candace: Why you gotta be all like that? I mean, this is serious! I can't even get down to the radio station to pick up the backstage passes and...
Stacy: (looking out of the window) Huh! What's that your brothers are building down there?
Candace: What? (trying to get out of bed) Let me see! Let me see!
Stacy: No way. You gotta stay off that foot!
Candace: (grunts) Wait! The video screen! .... There they are! Doing things! And there's Mom! Not noticing! Mom, Mom, turn around!
Stacy: You know she can't hear you.
Candace: Then I'll call her.
(In the backyard)
(cell phone ringing; loud music playing)
Linda: Hey, this is pretty good!
(Candace's room)
Candace: Oh, why doesn't she answer? I'm going down there!
Stacy: No!
Candace: Stacy, you gotta help me!
Stacy: Okay.
Candace: Thank you.
Stacy: I am such an enabler.
(Scene switches to Perry flying the rocket-powered hang-glider to D.E.I. Just as he lands on the balcony, the hang-glider splits into two sections, and after it flies away, a trap door opens revealing a pickle trap. The aforementioned trap quickly captures him.)
Doofenshmirtz:Ah! Perry the Platypus. You got yourself in quite a pickle there! See? 'Cause it's a pickle. And you're inside it. Anyway, backstory. It all started the other day when I was visiting Tony's Deli.
(Flashback to when Doofenshmirtz shows Tony the raisin/"fly" in his soup)
Doofenshmirtz: I had gotten a bowl of chicken soup, but it had a fly in it.
Tony: It's a raisin.
Doofenshmirtz: It's a FLY!
Tony: It's a raisin.
Doofenshmirtz: So, I took it to an entomologist.
Entomologist: It's a raisin.
(An outraged Doofenshmirtz walks away then slams the door.)
Entomologist: But on the other side is a fly.
(Flashback ends)
Doofenshmirtz: Of course, by then my soup was cold and it was too late for a refund. But now, I will wash Tony's Deli off the face of the Tri-State Area with my new Chicken Soup-inator! (camera pans to reveal the -inator)
It blasts out a super-concentrated rocket-like bolt (camera pans again to show a very large container...) of boiling hot chicken soup powerful enough to demolish an entire city block! You wouldn't believe how much chicken soup that baby takes, though! Luckily, Aaron's Deli was having a sale! Half a gallon of chicken soup free with every $40 purchase. All that chicken soup and it didn't cost me a nickel. Ha-ha! Of course, I had to buy a lot of food, mostly deli meats. (camera shows most of the food he had bought) They're piled up in the halls. It's... kind of warm in there. I hope they keep.
(Back in Candace's room)
Candace: Come on, Stacy! Come on, Stacy!
Stacy: (on the video screen) Hey, turn around. Turn around!
(drilling)
Candace: This is it!
Stacy: (on the video screen) Yeah, I mean you.
Phineas: (on the video screen) Oh, hi, Stacy.
Candace: What?
Phineas: (on the video screen) It's hard to hear over all the noise we're making. Is Candace enjoying the live video?
Stacy: (on the video screen) She's watching right now.
Phineas: (on the video screen) Hi, Candace! We're waving back, but we can't see or hear you!
Candace: (growls; texts a message on her cell phone)
(In the backyard)
(phone beeping)
Stacy: (after looking at Candace's text message) Wow! I'm surprised the spelling checker didn't catch that. (at Phineas) I've got to deliver a message to your mom.
Phineas: She's right over there.
Delivery Man: Delivery./Stacy: Mrs. Flynn-Fletcher!
(Stacy taps on Linda's shoulder.)
Linda: (turns around) Oh! Hi, Stacy.
Stacy: Take a look. (walks away)
Linda: Oh, the azaleas. You can put those down over there.
Phineas: Okay, lower it here!
(Back at D.E.I., Perry's struggling to get out of the pickle trap. Perry finally gives up, but then gets an idea. After seeing if Doofenshmirtz isn't looking, he shakes off his fedora, reverts to pet mode, and then chatters.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, poor little regular platypus. Did mean old Perry the Platypus stick you in there? (releases Perry from the trap, who then punches him in the face) Hey, why did you do...
(Perry puts on his fedora)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus! (runs toward the pile of food; grabs a bag from the pile) I don't know how you escaped or what you did with the other platypus but here, these two-day-old bagels are harder than Bessemer steel! Have a nosh!
(Doofenshmirtz tosses two bagels from the bag. Perry avoids the first one, but the second hits a passing by pelican.)
Doofenshmirtz: And how about some potato salad! Take this marble rye! And here's some braunschweiger! And some pickled herring! And, ooh, a red onion!
(Camera pans to Perry, who's holding a sandwich that has the food stuff Doofenshmitz threw at him.)
Doofenshmirtz: A Gunter Flagendorf? But how do you know that sandwich? He only made one movie and that was back in Gimmel... (gets hit in the face with the sandwich; screams)
(Back in the backyard)
Phineas: Power test.
(The Stratospheric Ionizer activates.)
(In Candace's room)
Candace: (throwing things at the window) Mom. Mom. Mom. I may as well try that dumb remote. (uses the remote several times) Oh, yeah, I'm free as a bird. (tosses the remote away; narrows eyes then grabs the box) Okay, what else? Oh, yeah, this thing and this. Big whoop.
Mindy Mimic: Big whoop.
Candace: (pause; gasps) Ee-ee-ee-ee... (attaches Mindy Mimic to helicopter) Mom, turn around.
Mindy Mimic: Mom, turn around. (x3)
(In the international space station)
Cosmonaut 1: Oh, smile, Sergei. It is your birthday.
Sergei: I know. I was just hoping to get a message from the boys by now.
Cosmonaut 1: Well, until then, you should join us in some fun! We are going to empty all of canteens and drink from the giant floating water ball, like ants in rain storm!
Sergei: Okay, okay, but just a sip.
(Just then, an asteroid warning signal appears on a monitor as one is heading towards the Earth.)
(Back at D.E.I., Perry does a back-flip and an action pose, then enters a bathroom, closing the door behind him. He opens a drawer that has an empty spray bottle and an opened package of antacid tablets in it.)
Doofenshmirtz: What? A bathroom break? Next time go before you come...
(While he's talking, the camera reveals that Perry's in Vanessa's bathroom. After smiling mischievously, he leaves it carrying the now filled spray bottle.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, how about some macaroni salad? .... Antacid? The only effective defense against deli foods. (grunts)
(Scene shifts to the backyard, where the helicopter, with the Mindy Mimic doll tied to it, continues its journey.)
Mindy Mimic: Mom, turn around. (x3)
(Linda bats at the helicopter a few times, causing a short circuit from it.)
(In Candace's room)
Candace: Oh, for crying out loud! (uses scissors to cut a cord; the cast falls) AAAAHHHHH!
(In the backyard)
Phineas: All right, guys. Sergei's space station is almost directly above us. Sing into the mic and the Stratospheric Ionizer will visualize our words!
(Inside the house, Candace's crawling down the stairs on her hands and knees. She looses her balance and then crashes the rest of the way.)
(In the backyard)
Phineas: Okay! A-one and a-two and...
(The helicopter hits the mic with a thud.)
Mindy Mimic: Turn around. (x2)
(The message appears in the upper atmosphere.)
Sergei: "Turn around"? .... Comrades, listen! Evasive maneuvers! Quickly!
Cosmonaut 1: Those boys, they have saved our lives!
Sergei: And look! We found a wormhole!
All: (whooping) Yes! That is what I am talking about!
(At the Flynn-Fletcher house, Candace finally made it to the backyard.)
Candace: (crawling towards Linda) Mooooom! Mooooom! Mooooom! Moooo-oooom!
(Meanwhile, the asteroid is heading towards the Tri-State Area.)
(Back at D.E.I., Doofenshmirtz spits some pickles out of his mouth.)
Doofenshmirtz: Twelve pickles! How did you even get them all in there? (leaps at Perry, who kicks him onto the -inator) My Chicken Soup-inator! Nooooo!
(A stream of chicken soup comes out and hits the asteroid as the latter passes by. The Chicken Soup-inator then explodes.)
(Back in the backyard)
Candace: Mom! (hops to Linda and stalks her) Turn around! (the asteroid whacks the ionizer behind her) TURN AROUUUUUND!!!
Linda: What? Oh, okay.
Candace: See? (sees nothing is there) But, but, but, but...
Linda: Well, I'm glad your ankle's feeling better, dear. But you should really be lying down. And look, the kids clear out the perfect spot for my snapdragons! I think that earns you for some pie.
Buford, Isabella, Ferb, Phineas: Hooray!
Linda: Oh, not on the flowers, sweetie, I just planted those.
Candace: They're lovely.
Phineas: It's a shame we couldn't get that message to Sergei. I'll try calling his cell. (dials a number on his cell phone)
Sergei: (voice recording) Hello, I'm unavailable because I'm hurtling through time, and evolving past our human limitations. So, don't bother leaving a message after the beep.
Phineas: I guess we'll never be able to wish him a happy birthday.
Ferb: Well, never say never.
(Caption: Somewhere beyond Jupiter... And beyond time.)
Sergei: (wheezing) What the... (gasps)
Ferb alien: Happy birthday!
Sergei: They did remember. Such nice boys.






 ...Because the worst part of the party is the cleanup, am I right?
This article may require clean-up to meet Phineas and Ferb Wiki's standards.
Please improve the article if you can.
(June 19, 2016) 
(Open to a large pit, walking along a cliff with lava surrounding them, a chained up Phineas, Ferb, Candace and Dr. Doofenshmirtz are trudging to their doom. At the end of the path, a giant ferocious monster, the Goozim, is in a cage, it roars loudly, blowing their hair back)
Phineas: I'll be honest, Ferb. I'm having a hard time putting a positive spin on this. But, I guess that's life, huh? One minute you're having the best day ever, the next you're being fed to a monster the size of a two car garage.
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah? Well, welcome to MY life! (the Goozim roars, he hides behind a robot)
Phineas: Huh. And everything started out so well this morning.

EARLIER THAT DAY
(Pan in to the boys' bedroom. The Phineas and Ferb: Across the Second Dimension logo pops up. Phineas's alarm clock rings 7:00 and a mechanical arm emerges out of it and pokes a sleeping Perry awake, he chatters, waking Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: Good morning, Perry! Now that's the way to wake up. (He hugs Perry) This is gonna be the best day ever.
(The boys get dressed and ready for the day)
(Song: Everything's Better with Perry)
♪We consider every day a plus♪
♪To spend it with a platypus♪
♪We're always so ecstatic♪
♪'Cause he's semi aquatic♪
♪Our Ornithorhynchus anatinus♪
♪Brings smiles to the both of us♪
♪Life's never fuddie duddy♪
♪With our web-footed buddy♪
♪When we're brushing our teeth, It's better♪
♪Tying our shoes,♪
♪(Oh yeah!)♪
♪It's better♪
♪Combing our hair, It's better♪
♪Like we're a cheese sandwich and he's the cheddar♪
♪Blinking our eyes, It's better♪
♪Breathing in and out, It's better (So much better)♪
♪Sitting in a chair, It's better♪
♪And taking a bath is just a little bit wetter♪
♪Every day is such a dream♪
♪When you start it with a monotreme♪
♪He's duck-billed and he's beaver tailed and hairy♪
♪(You know that he's hairy)♪
♪Everything's better with Perry♪
♪(Everything's better with Perry)♪
♪Everything's better with Perry♪
♪(Everything's better with Perry)♪
♪Everything is better with Perry♪
♪(Everything is better, everything is better with Perry)♪
♪Everything's better and we♪
♪Just want to tell you Perry♪
♪Everything's better with you (Better with you)♪
(Phineas, Ferb, and Perry slide down the staircase railing and land in a pile on the floor, Perry chatters)
Lawrence: Good morning, boys.
Linda: Happy anniversary, Perry.
Phineas: Oh, that's right! Gosh, I can't believe it's been five years. I remember the day we first got you.

(Flashback to 5 years ago, Lawrence and Linda take a younger Phineas, Ferb, and Candace to the "OWCA Animal Rescue Center")
Lawrence: Come on, kids. Pick out any pet you want.
Linda: Oh look, Phineas! This one's looking at you! (picks up Phineas and shows him a cat)
Lawrence: And this one's looking at you, Ferb! (picks up Ferb and shows him a dog)
Young Candace: (walks through the aquarium section and all the fish swim away as she approaches) Why won't anything look at ME?!
(Phineas and Ferb approaches a baby Perry)
Young Phineas: Ferb! This one's looking at both of us at the same time!
(Baby Perry chatters)
Linda: Awww...
Young Candace: That thing? You're kidding, right?
(A female store employee approaches them)
Store employee: Is there something I can do for you?
Lawrence: Ah, yes, we'd like that one, please.
Store employee: (surprised) You want to adopt the platypus?
Lawrence: Oh, is that what it is? Well, yes! May we have him please?
Young Candace: What would you even name a platypus?
Phineas: (Narrating) 'Course, Ferb and I knew exactly what to call you.
Young Phineas and Ferb: (simultaneously) Bartholomew!
(Baby Perry chatters)

(Present)
Phineas: And then when we got you home, we renamed you Perry. And gave you this locket!
(Phineas reaches into Perry's fur and pulls out a web foot shaped locket on a collar. He opens the locket around Perry's neck, revealing three pictures, one of young Phineas, Ferb, and Perry)
Look how young we all were.

Candace: (in her room, talking with her cell phone) Hey Jeremy, you wanna go to the mall?
Jeremy: (At his house) You know, I'd love to, but my Dad is taking me to check out his old college today.
Jack Johnson: (runs in) Boo-ya! Go Polecats! Boo-ya! (he runs away)
Jeremy: He's already set up an interview with the academic adviser. Can you believe that?
Candace: Gee, Jeremy. I forgot you're a whole year older than me. A trip to college? Heh-heh.. That's, that's really great. Okay, well, I'll talk to you later. Bye.
(Hangs up phone and picks up a stuffed teddy bear with a picture of Jeremy taped to its face)
(to the teddy bear) Oh, Jeremy! In the blink of an eye, you'll be moving on to the next phase of your life. You'll be going to college and wearing tweed jackets with patches on the elbows! You'll be so mature! And look at ME! I'm a child! Jeremy, you'll see! I can mature! Starting with taking this silly photo off. (rips off photo) Oh, Mr. Miggins! Have you been there the whole time?

(The two boys are in the backyard; Ferb is placing a baseball on Perry's tail)
Phineas: (holding a baseball bat and tapping the home plate) Alright, looks like the pitcher's ready, and...batter up!
(Ferb scratches Perry's neck and Perry's tail snaps forward, flinging the baseball toward Phineas)
Batter batter batter, swing! (swings at the baseball and hits) Oh yes, sports fans! That may be the best hit ever in the history of platypult baseball!
(Ferb checks the "Platypult Baseball World Record Book" and gives Phineas a thumbs up)
And the crowd exhales loudly through their mouths! (imitates a roaring crowd)
(Ferb uses the remote control baseball glove to guide the ball back)
And Fletcher snags the pop fly! He's out!
Isabella: (enters) Hi, Phineas! What'cha doin'?
Phineas: Turning Perry's involuntary reflex into sporting event.
Isabella: Hi, Perry! Can I try? (scratches Perry's neck and the baseball is catapulted out of the yard)
Phineas: Whoa, mama! Nice shot, Isabella!
Baljeet: (enters along with Buford) Did someone lose a ball?
Phineas: Yeah, we were just playing platypult.
Baljeet: Oh, I LOVE Platypus-themed sports!
Phineas: You know, if we had TWO Perrys, we could put a net between them and play platypult badminton!
Buford: Who's Annette?
Phineas: Ferb, that's it! I know what we're gonna do today!
Buford: No, seriously. Who's Annette?

(They finish up a mechanical platypult)
Phineas: Okay, everyone. I think the tail is all set. I'll just go check with the foreman.
Isabella: (noticing Perry's absence) He's gone!
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry? (he checks under the machine) Did he really slip away? On his anniversary? Sometimes it seems like Perry's missed every single cool thing we've done all summer long. Well, I guess he can do whatever he wants. After all, it's HIS day, right?
(Perry is shown hiding behind the tree, his fedora on. He throws a pebble at the fence)
Baljeet: Hey, what was the small noise?
Phineas: Let's all go walk over to it!

(Perry slips into the house while they're gone, he goes to the couch and pulls back a mirror over it, revealing a hole, he goes in and rides a vacuum tube down to his lair, passing by Pinky the Chihuahua and other agents, as he lands at his seat, Major Monogram is on screen)
Major Monogram: Ah, good morning, Agent P. A quick word, recently you've been having some close calls, and your host family has nearly caught you sneaking into your lair several times. No need to remind you, but I'll do it anyway, that if your cover's blown, you'll have to be transferred to another city, with another host family. And we both know you wouldn't like that. (chuckles) I remember the day you were first assigned.

(Flashback to when the Flynn-Fletcher family was just walking out of the adoption agency with their new platypus)
Female store employee: Enjoy your platypus!
Lawrence: Thank you! Cheerio!
(the employee takes off her head, revealing it's a mask, under it is a younger Carl with braces on)
Younger Carl: (into a headset) Agent assignment complete, sir.
Younger Monogram: (inside a computer-filled room) Good job, Carl! If you keep up the great work, you'll make unpaid intern in no time!

(Present)
Carl: (off screen) And I did!
Major Monogram: Don't get cocky, Carl! Agent P, as you know, every operative is equipped with an auto-scan replication device, just like the one in your hat. We've been using the information you've gathered to replicate each and every one of Dr. Doofenshmirtz's inators. Our top men have been analyzing them to determine if they've been getting smarter or dumber. And, to be honest, the jury's still out. Now we find out that he's in the process of building an alternate dimension-related inator. Your assignment is to stop him, before he finishes building it. Behind you, rising dramatically from the floor, is Carl with some high-tech devices that you might find useful.
(A platform rises with dramatic music, on it is a large container of devices)
Carl: (off-screen) Um, Sir? Hello? I didn't step on in time. Would you mind lowering the platform again?
Major Monogram: Oh, great, let me... cue the music again.
(Rewind dramatic music and plays it again as Carl rises with the platform this time)
Carl: Voilà monsieur! (He shows a wristwatch) This first item is our new wrist-communicationizer. It has many applications that will help you in the field. For example a powerful directional electro-magnet. It will draw any metal object to you. (He pushes a button and his glasses are drawn to it) See? And these are aluminum!
Major Monogram: Quit goofing around, Carl, and show him the hologram.
Carl: Yes, sir. (he pushes a button on the watch and turns on hologram of Major Monogram)
Major Monogram: Hehe, pretty nifty, huh? (from the hologram) With this device, you'll be able to contact me anywhere at anytime, but don't call between 3:30 and 4:00, because...that's when I take a shower. Whoa wee, wait a minute. (Points to Monogram on the big screen) Is that... me?
Carl: Oh, no! His holographic projection has become mesmerized by his video image! I better shut it off.
(He shuts off the hologram, then points to the watch again)
And if you push THIS button, it'll give your adversary an incredible ice cream headache.
(He pushes button and immediately screams and holds his head in pain, then stops)
It's gone. You better watch where you point that. (He hands the watch over to Perry)

(Candace, inside her room, is shown packing her belongings into a cardboard box)
Stacy: (enters) Hey, girl. Uh, what are you doing?
Candace: Stacy, Jeremy's going to college soon, and here I am concerned with busting my brothers to my MOMMY and living in the NURSERY. (She picks up a ceramic unicorn) A unicorn! A UNICORN, Stacy! (mockingly) "Hi, I'm six!" You've GOTTA help me get rid of all this junk.
Stacy: Wow, bold move!
Candace: Yep! Goodbye, childhood folly. Hello, carefree undemanding adult life!
Linda: (enters) Yeah, good luck with that. Candace, your father and I are off to the movies. While we're gone, you're in charge, okay?
Candace: Okay, Mom! (to Stacy) And you know, I'm even thinking of giving up on busting my brothers.
Stacy: The irony is, that as a grown up, you don't NEED to tell your mom. You can just bust them yourself.
Candace: (gasps) That's it! Stacy, I'm old enough to bust them myself!
Stacy: That's what I just said.

♪Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated!♪
Doofenshmirtz: Now, Perry the Platypus, quake in terror, as I punch a hole through to another dimension! (shows his Other Dimensionator) Behold! The Other-Dimension...
Norm: Sir!
Doofenshmirtz: What? What?
Norm: (in front of a large buffet table) I've finished setting up the buffet.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, for crying out loud, Norm. I was in the zone!
Norm: I just thought you were playing with your doll.
Doofenshmirtz: It's not a doll, it's a stand-in. Pretendy the Practice-pus, see? I wonder if Perry the Platypus practices with a fake me? It would be nice to know he cares about...(tennis ball eye falls off the stand-in)

(Cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard, the mechanical platypult is finished and Phineas and Ferb are inside the giant shuttlecock)
Phineas: All systems are green, prepare to launch on my mark, T-minus thirty and counting. 29, 28, 27, 26...

(at Perry's lair)
Carl: ...Of course, you'll only need this if you're attacked by one of the royals or a member of Parliament, so it's probably okay to leave the safety on. And here's your brand new rocket-car. (He shows it as Perry gets in and starts it) Sweet huh? Good luck, Agent P!
(Perry rides on the car)
Major Monogram: Uh, Carl, did you tell him the accelerator's a little touchy?
(The rocket car roars off, hitting the ceiling directly)
Carl: I think he knows, sir.

(at the backyard)
Phineas: ...3, 2, 1, service!
(Isabella pushes a button marked INVOLUNTARY REFLEX, and the platypult launches them, at the same time, Perry's rocket car bursts out of the ground nearby and collides with it, sending them both careening away from each other, Candace and Stacy run into the backyard)
Candace: Phineas and Ferb, you are so bus... Oh my gosh! Where'd it go? You there! Small children! Where's the big contraption?
Isabella: I don't know, it was here just a moment ago.
Candace: It disappeared! Stacy, do you realize what this means?
Stacy: We're done?
Candace: No, some mysterious force always takes away Phineas and Ferb's inventions before Mom shows up, this time, it took it away before I showed up! The mysterious force recognizes that I'm now a grown-up!
Stacy: "Mysterious Force"?, I'm not buying it, I am a woman of science, at least that's what my horoscope said.   

Candace: Well I'm going to prove it to you and bust my brothers at the same time, Where are my brothers?
Baljeet: We just launched them toward the park, Buford is there with the other platypult.
Candace: Okay children, as the adult here, I decree we're going to the park, does anyone have to go potty first? (Stacy raises her hand) Fine, make it quick.

(in the air)
Phineas: Ferb! It looks like we're going to hit that building that looks vaguely like your head!

(at DEI)
Doofenshmirtz: Time to give it a little test. (he turns it on, it starts for a brief second, then shuts down) Hmm. Well I just finished it, it can't be broken already.
(Phineas and Ferb smash into it)
Doofenshmirtz: (sighs) I stand corrected.
(Phineas and Ferb get out of the shuttlecock) Alright, what's with the giant shuttlecock?
Phineas: We're really sorry, sir, I don't know what happened, one minute we were innocently launching ourselves across the city in a badminton platypult, the next thing we know, we're bouncing on up to the east side to your deluxe apartment in the sky.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, it looks like you've totaled my Other-Dimensionator.
Phineas: An Other-Dimensionator? What does it do?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, at the moment, it just stops giant shuttlecocks, apparently, but it's supposed to let me go into other dimensions.
Phineas: Oh, that's cool! We can help you fix it. I'm Phineas and this is my brother Ferb.
Doofenshmirtz: I'm Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz, but my friends call me.... (stops and thinks) I just got into such a funk.
Phineas: Ferb is naturally handy with tools, I'll bet we could put this thing back together again in no time.
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, what the heck, before we set up, there's a whole buffet here, please partake, I was expecting someone who seems to be running late.

(Meanwhile, Perry is on the ground, his smoking rocket car is being picked up by a tow truck)
Driver: You're lucky I got a rocket car winch, lots of guys don't have that.

(Back to DEI, the boys have restored the Other-Dimensionator)
Phineas: Almost there, okay, field compressor attaches to the auxiliary generator, was this working before?
Doofenshmirtz: Well if by "working", you mean "functioning properly", then, uh, no.
Phineas: Well I think I see your problem, everything is wired through this self-destruct button, do you even need that?
Doofenshmirtz: Well of course I need tha... Wait! No I don't, I do not need that, you are absolutely right, huh.
Phineas: So Ferb has rigged up this remote control, so that if we get separated from the portal, we can open another one.
Doofenshmirtz: Huh, nice touch, kid.
Phineas: I guess this is the last piece, okay Ferb, boost me up. (Ferb lifts him)
(Suddenly, Perry crashes through the window on his jet-pack, ready to attack, he stops as he sees the boys and lands, his eyes dart nervously as he looks)
Doofenshmirtz: Ooh, I cannot wait!
(Perry takes a step back, Phineas glances and Perry is back in pet mode, he chatters)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
Doofenshmirtz: Perry?
Phineas: Yeah, he's our pet platypus.
Doofenshmirtz: Is every platypus named Perry?
Phineas: In a perfect world, yes.
Doofenshmirtz: Aww, well he's a cute little fella, hi there. (he tickles Perry's chin) Gootchie... (Perry chomps down on his finger) OW OW OW!
Phineas: Perry, no! (He and Ferb pull him off) We do not bite the elderly!
Doofenshmirtz: Again, Ow. No, it's okay, platypuses don't typically like me.
Phineas: Well Perry, you're just in time to see us open up a portal to another dimension.
(Perry's eyes widen, Phineas and Ferb are about to put the piece in, when Perry leaps and grabs it in his mouth)
Perry, what are you doing?
(Perry goes under the buffet table, Phineas and Ferb grab the piece and pull)
Perry, no, this is not tug of war, this is not tug of war! (Phineas pulls the piece out) Silly boy, what's gotten into him?
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, let's get this show on the road, huh?
Major Monogram: (his head appears beside Perry) Remember, if your cover's blown, you'll never see the boys again.
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, does anyone hear someone talking?
Major Monogram: (actually the hologram on Perry's watch) Never see them again...
(Perry covers the watch and walks over to the nearby couch)
Phineas: Okay, here we go, (Ferb lifts him) right in he...
(Perry suddenly pees on the couch, he then jumps off)
Phineas: Perry, no! (He and Ferb run over) Not on the sofa! (Ferb picks him up) Oh, I'm sorry, Dr. D, we should take him outside.
Doofenshmirtz: No no, it's alright. (he turns over the cushion) I was planning on replacing this old couch anyway. Now come on, let's light this pop stand, or however the saying goes.
(Perry looks nervous as they go to the machine, Phineas inserts the piece and it powers up)
You know its, its kinda weird, I'm usually thwarted by this point, huh, I guess he's not coming.
(he turns it on, a portal forms) And now, the mind blowing first images from beyond our dimensional reality!
(Their eyes all widen as it forms, and then a room with a couch in shades of pink and purple appears)
Doofenshmirtz: Huh, it's a...it's a couch. That's a bit anti-climatic, I guess it's a nice couch, though.
(He looks back and forth between his couch and the other one)
Hmm, hey, I got an idea, let's swap my couch for that one! (he enters the portal)
Phineas: Uh...
Doofenshmirtz: (grabs the pink couch and tries to pull it to the portal) Okay, I got it, I got - uh, maybe, hey, you want to give me a hand here?
Phineas: Whoa, awesome! (He and Ferb, who's still holding Perry, enter the portal) Check it out!
Major Monogram (2nd Dimension): Ahem.
Doofenshmirtz: (sees the 2nd dimension Monogram) Oh uh, hello. Say, aren't you...
Phineas: Hey Dr. D! Look at this!
Doofenshmirtz: Hold that thought! (runs over to a balcony and sees Phineas, Ferb, and Perry are looking out)
Phineas: You're famous here!
(reveals the 2nd Dimension Tri-State Area, which is various colors of purples, pinks and greens, we see various places, all named after Doofenshmirtz, we see a 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz poster, he wears a black lab coat buttoned over grey pants and black boots, and grey gloves, he has a goatee, spiked up hair and an eyepatch on his left eye, which has a scar that goes over the patch)
(reveals a large statue of Doofenshmirtz-2, he rides a rhino, holding a shield that reads ME, and holding a sword that reads OBEY)
(reveals a store called Doof's Closet, signs on it read YOUR HOTSPOT FOR MANDATORY DOOFERALLS!, CLOTHES YOU MUST OWN!, HIGH PRICES!, EXPENSIVE!, THE LATEST IN REQUIRED CONFORMITY!)
(A subway train with 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz's face pulls into the station, its doors open)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension) 's VO: Get off!
Doofenshmirtz: (Reading a blimp) "Heinz Doofenshmirtz, Your Leader"?
(Perry has an incredibly nervous look on his face, he gulps)
A whole Tri-State Area where I am already in charge! (chuckles) Yeah! Wait a minute, I gotta go check something out. (he goes up to 2nd Dimension Monogram) Uh, yoo-hoo! Hello again!
Major Monogram (2nd Dimension): Is this some kind of test? Is that really you, sir?
Doofenshmirtz: Ha ha! Holy Boy! Even the great Francis Monogram's my slave in this dimension!
Major Monogram (2nd Dimension): I prefer the term "Indentured Executive Assistant".
Doofenshmirtz: Well, I want to meet this other dimension me, where can I find him?
Major Monogram (2nd Dimension): Oh, you're from another dimension? Well then, he'll probably want to see you, he's into that freaky sorta stuff. Have a seat and I'll let him know you're on your way up.
(He pushes a button on a control and a chair slides in, Doofenshmirtz gets on)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, so I just gotta sit here and...
(it slides away, he screams as two doors open and he enters, a song starts up as he goes into an animatronic ride filled with gnomes, he passes by the Gunther Goat Cheese's Goat and waves)
Gnomes: ♪ Doof Doof Doof♪ / ♪Bask in his glory♪ / ♪Kneel at his feet ♪ /♪ You're in for such a treat♪ / ♪He's Doofenshmirtz!♪
(He enters another room)
Doofenshmirtz: That was awesome! (He slides up to a desk, a chair turns to reveal 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Alright, who's interrupting my...
(He stops and sees Doofenshmirtz, they both Hmm, they get up, switch seats, hmm, and switch seats again, and hmm again)
Do I know you?
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, I'm you from another dimension.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Well that would explain the handsomeness.
Doofenshmirtz: Right back atcha, big guy.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Does that mean you and I are exactly alike?
Doofenshmirtz: I suppose so.
(Song: Brand New Best Friend)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪Do you want some rice pudding?♪
Doofenshmirtz: Blech, no, that's gross!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪It was a test. Almond brittle?♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪Ooh, I love it the most!♪
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Me too!
Doofenshmirtz: ♪Do you collect coins?♪
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪Yeah, just in case♪
♪Vending machines become the♪
Both: ♪Dominant race! I've been alone all these years♪
♪With my irrational fears ♪
Doofenshmirtz: But not the vending machine thing. That's gonna happen.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪But now before me I see♪
Both: ♪Someone with whom I agree♪
♪I've found a brand new best friend and it's me♪
♪I've found a brand new best friend and it's me♪
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪Hmm, I thought I'd be taller♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪I've been told I slouch♪
♪I thought I've have both my eyes, y'know...♪
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): It's in this pouch
Doofenshmirtz: Ouch!
Doofenshmirtz: You know, I can't help but notice that your scar goes over your eyepatch.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Yeah...
Doofenshmirtz: ...Nothing...
Doofenshmirtz: ♪Do llamas weird you out?♪
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪Yeah, are they camels or sheep?♪
Doofenshmirtz: No, no, I meant Lorenzo
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Oh, that's right
Both: ♪He played Meap!♪
♪Now I know all about you♪
♪And you know all about me♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪Ooh-wee-ooh♪
Both: ♪And now before me I see♪
♪Someone with whom I agree♪
♪I've found a brand new best friend and it's me♪
♪I've found a brand new best friend and it's me♪
♪Now that I've found you♪
♪We can be a duo♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪That's right.♪
Both: ♪Twice the evil ♪
♪Double Doofenshmirtz ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪Coming at you Fridays!♪
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): What's that, are we doing a TV show together?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh no. It just sort of sounded like that. Well, I mean, we could. We should!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Hmm, maybe we're not so much alike
Doofenshmirtz: That can be your catchphrase! You're the grumpy one. (Pokes him) Eh?

(Meanwhile, Perry, Phineas and Ferb are still on the balcony)
Phineas: Wow, he's done really well for himself, what do you think, Perry?
(He holds Perry up, Perry looks around nervously for a second, then reverts to pet mode and chatters)
Hey, where is Dr. D?

(Back in 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz's office)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): So what you're telling me is you're still not ruler of your Tri-State Area?
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah? Well obviously YOU did not have to deal with MY nemesis, Perry the Platypus!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Oh didn't I? Observe! (He motions to a doorway, it opens, and something steps out)
Doofenshmirtz: What is it?
(reveals 2nd Dimension Perry, or Platyborg, he salutes)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): This is Perry the Platyborg! He was once my nemesis, but now, he is general of my army!
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, you are good!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Dismissed.
(Platyborg salutes again and rockets off)
(Phineas, Ferb, and Perry ride in on the same chairs Doofenshmirtz did)Phineas: That was awesome!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Ugh, now who's interrupting me? Remind me to berate my Indentured Executive Assistant!
Doofenshmirtz: No, no, man, it's cool. They're with me.
Phineas: Hey Dr. D, we thought we lost you.
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, guys! (2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz grabs him) Whoops!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): You dare to bring a secret agent in here?
Doofenshmirtz: This boy's a secret agent?
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): No, no, not him!
Doofenshmirtz: The quiet one?
(Ferb turns to Phineas and shrugs)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): No no, HIM!
Doofenshmirtz: This plant?
(reveals a small potted plant next to Phineas, Ferb and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): The platypus! That's secret agent Perry the Platypus!
Phineas: Whoa whoa, hey, he's just a platypus, he doesn't do much.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Oh, oh this rich, I see what's going on here, you, you really think that he's your pet, don't you? WRONG! He's using you, you're just his cover, he's a secret agent! Here, here, let me prove it. (he looks up) General Platyborg, come down here at once! He'll be here in just a minute, and then...
(Platyborg lands on 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz's foot, he yells in pain and holds his foot, then stops)
Alright Platyborg, you see that platypus? You know what to do.(Platyborg charges and smacks Perry away)
Phineas: Perry!
(Perry lands on his feet and shakes himself)
What was that for?! (He and Ferb run to Perry) Perry, are you okay?
Doofenshmirtz: Told ya!
(Ferb checks Perry with a stethoscope)
Phineas: How are his vitals?
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Wait, let me try something. Platyborg, do the same thing to those two boys.
Doofenshmirtz: What?
(Platyborg leaps and charges at Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: What?
(Platyborg is about to punch, when Perry stands upright and socks him back)
♪ Perry! ♪
Phineas: Perry?
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): HA! YES! I knew it!
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, wait a minute, I'm confused, why does their platypus fight so good?
(Perry puts his fedora on)
(gasps) PERRY THE PLATYPUS?!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): (sarcastic) Really?
Doofenshmirtz: What?
(2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz groans)
Phineas: Perry?
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Get them!
(Two armored bots come at them, Perry pulls Phineas and Ferb away)
Phineas: You're a secret agent?
(They swerve as more bots come in, they slide under the animal skeleton, a bot knocks away the skull)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Hey, be careful with that!
(The skull slides near a window, Phineas, Ferb, and Perry back up. Phineas gets angry)
Phineas: So this is where you disappear to everyday? You come here and fight this guy?
Doofenshmirtz: No no, he fights me, he doesn't really know this guy.
Phineas: You fight a pharmacist? Why would you even do that?!
Doofenshmirtz: Actually, I'm an evil scientist, but a lot of people are confused by the lab coat.
Phineas: You're evil? He's evil?! (They back up to the window pane) So not only have you been leading a double life this whole time, but you sat there and let us help an evil scientist open an evil portal into an evil dimension, and you did nothing to stop us?!
Ferb: Well, he did pee on the couch.
Doofenshmirtz: Wait a second, I just realized, that was a conscious choice! You peed on my couch!
(Perry shrugs embarrassedly)
Phineas: No no, that wasn't enough! That's when you should've put on your little hat, not now, after we've gone forward into this mess!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Oh, for badness sake, you can hash all this out in prison. Guards!
(Perry pushes the brain freeze button on his watch, 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz grabs at his head)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Ahh! Brain freeze!
(Perry opens the window, they fall out. Phineas screams, Perry sticks his foot in the skull's eye sockets and Phineas and Ferb grab the horns, his chute opens up)
♪ Agent P! ♪
Phineas: I-I'm sorry, I'm just having trouble processing this right now. (Perry hands him a pamphlet) "So You've Discovered Your Pet is a Secret Agent..." (throws it away) I don't want your pamphlet!
(Platyborg leaps down after them, wings extend out of his back and he darts to them)
Phineas: Uh oh. (Perry moves them away, Platyborg turns back and flies at them) He's coming back around!
(Perry dislodges the chute as Platyborg cuts through. They land and slide down another window bank. Platyborg rockets back at them. Perry struggles to remove his feet from the skull; Phineas looks.)
Phineas: Oh, you have got to be kidding me! (Perry still struggles) For crying out loud!
(Platyborg rockets back, Phineas and Ferb both try to pull Perry free)
What, they didn't teach you how to get out of this in Spy School?
(Perry is flung, he lands up on the windows and balances himself. Platyborg lands next to him and his wings retract, Perry turns the skull to face him.)
Oh snap! (Perry's discarded parachute lands on them) Look, there's a logo on this parachute! He's got his own logo?
(Perry and Platyborg fight. Perry grabs Platyborg's arm and punches Platyborg's face several times, with no effect. Platyborg smirks evilly and punches Perry, sending him back near the edge. Platyborg morphs his hand into a spinning mace, but Phineas and Ferb wrap him in the parachute. He stumbles and falls off the edge.)
Phineas: All this time, we're like "He's a platypus, he doesn't do much". Well apparently, you do. You... you, you're tangled up in the...
(The skull is caught in the chute lines. Phineas and Ferb grab on, they fall, Platyborg grabs a nearby ledge and Phineas, Ferb, and Perry are flung into a window pane. They all tip as they hit each one, lowering them to the ground.)
Wow, saved by unconventional architecture.
Normbot: (approaches them) May I please see your papers?
(They stare, the Normbot replaces its normal head with an armored one)
(deep voice) Show me your papers or be destroyed.
(The skull lands on the Normbot's head, it sputters and flies off erratically. The door opens and Platyborg comes out, tearing off the chute, he marches up to them, then he hears a noise and looks. The Normbot lands, but right behind him. Platyborg then goes back to marching, but is then hit by a bus. Perry, Phineas, and Ferb run.)
Both Doofenshmirtz's: Curse you, Perry the Platypus!
Doofenshmirtz: Jinx, you owe me a soda!
Normbot: Get me, I'm a Georgia O'Keefe painting!
(A taxi pulls up, Platyborg is stuck on the windshield)
Driver: 4th and Main. (Platyborg gets off and hands him some money) What? No tip? (Platyborg turns his hand into the mace) Never mind, I'm good. (He drives off, Platyborg looks around)

(Phineas, Ferb, and Perry hide in an alley behind a dumpster as several Normbot's hover by, Phineas looks)
Phineas: Looks like they're gone. (Looks at Perry) You're a secret agent?! And you've been living with us this whole time? Was that evil guy right? Were we just your cover story? Were you ever really our pet or part of our family? (Perry looks down, depressed) Apparently not, cause you didn't trust us enough to tell us. Anyone else here leading a bizarre double life? (Ferb raises his hand) Put your hand down, Ferb. (Ferb lowers it) You're a secret agent. He's a secret agent! (Ferb puts a hand on Phineas' shoulder) You're right, Ferb, we have to concentrate on the task at hand, we need to get back to our dimension, and I don't even know where to start.
(Ferb holds up the remote)
Oh, that's right, the remote! (he takes it) I knew that would come in handy! Alright, let's go home!
(He aims the device and opens a portal. We see a pastel colored forest area with a weird, six eyed lizard type creature.)
Wait, that's not our dimension.
(He shuts the portal, taps the remote and opens and closes portals in different spots, each has the same image)
Nope. Uh uh. Not that one. Great, now this thing's broken. We're gonna need some help. I know! Let's go find us!
(They peek behind the dumpster, Phineas looks at Perry)
Phineas: Wait a minute, I just realized, you could've been cleaning your own litter box this whole time! (Perry shrugs) Oh we are not done with this conversation! (They run off)

(Meanwhile, Doofenshmirtz is squeezed into a small school chair. 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz is by a picture of Perry in pet mode.)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): So tell me, other-dimension me. What do you see here?
Doofenshmirtz: An ordinary platypus.
(2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz flips the page, now showing an image of Perry in secret agent mode.)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): And now what do you see?
Doofenshmirtz: (gasps) Perry the Platypus!
Doofenshmirtz-2: You know, I'm starting to see why you haven't become ruler in your dimension.
Doofenshmirtz: Alright, Mr. "Eviler than Thou", how did you manage to take over the Tri-State Area, anyway?
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Simple, I used an army of big, scary robots.
(Motions to a huge army of Normbots, they convert to the Norm heads)
Normbots: We should do lunch sometime! (they revert back to the armored heads)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, that is scary. I tried that robot thing once, too. I hid the self-destruct button on the bottoms of their feet, so nobody could reach them.

(Flashback to Doofenshmirtz with his army of bots, all which have the foot with the self destruct button raised up, he rides on the shoulder of one of the bots. Doofenshmirtz then calls out "And march", which causes the robots to take a step forward and explode)

(Present)
Doofenshmirtz: I think I've said enough. I still don't get it, if we're the same person, how come you're so much better at being evil than me?
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): True evil is born through pain and loss. You see, when I was a small boy back in Gimmelshtump, I had a toy train.

(We flashback to young Doofenshmirtz-2, still with the eyepatch, but no scar. He holds a wooden train, we then see him looking at the tracks.)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): (narrating) Then one day, I lost it.
Young Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Choo Choo?

(Present; Doofenshmirtz stares)
Doofenshmirtz: That's... That's it?
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): What do you mean?
Doofenshmirtz: That's your emotionally scarring backstory? That's your great tragedy? Dude, I was raised by ocelots, literally. Disowned by my parents and raised by Central American wildcats, and you're telling me you lost a toy train? That's it? That's all you got? Really? I had to work as a lawn gnome, I was forced to wear hand-me-up girl's clothing, neither of my parents showed up for my birth!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Well, how did you feel when you lost that toy train?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, I never lost that toy train.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Well, maybe if you had, you would've done better. Since you have neglected to take over YOUR Tri-State Area, I think I'll go over there and give it a shot myself.
Doofenshmirtz: Great, we can be a team!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): (Sarcastic) Yeah, right, a team.
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, was that sarcasm?
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): (Sarcastic) No...
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, right there, I'm pretty sure that's my voice when I'm being sarcastic.

(At 1st Dimension, Candace, Stacy, Isabella, and Baljeet walk up to Buford, who is on a park bench, chewing some gum)
Candace: Okay Buford, where are Phineas and Ferb?
Buford: How should I know? They never showed up for me to return serve. That's considered a forfeit in catapult badminton, so I went to get some Victory Gum.
♪Victory Gum!♪
Buford: A tradition as old as the game itself.
Candace: Don't play with me, young man, where is the giant platypult they built?
Buford: Don't know, it seems to have vanished.
Candace: Oh really? Did you hear that, Stace? The mysterious force took the platypult away before I, the grown up, could see it.
Stacy: Yeah yeah, I'm sure there's a logical explanation for all of this.

(We cut to the tow truck driver from before towing the Platypult)
Driver: And they laughed at me for installing a platypult tow rig. Who's laughing now, Wayne?
(Back to the park)
Candace: The logical explanation IS the mysterious force, the question is, why does it care so much about my little brothers? Why doesn't it want them to get busted?
Buford: Well, why don't you ask it, Kierkegaard? (They stare) What? Existentialist Trading Cards. (Holds up a pack) Came with the gum.
Candace: Wait, he's right! I should just ask it, I'll bet I can reason with it.
Stacy: Reason with it? Candace, it's a force, that you made up.
Candace: No, I know what I'm talking about, Stacy, Come on! (Pulls her)
Stacy: Where are we going?
Candace: To my backyard, the heart of the mysterious force!
(The kids look, Baljeet then pulls out two cards)
Baljeet: Would you like to trade two Sartre for a Nietzsche?
Buford: Alright. (He takes the cards and hands the other over)
Baljeet: Sucker.

(At the 2nd Dimension, a pair of Normbots hover by two trash cans. After they go, Phineas and Ferb poke their heads out of them)
Phineas: Well, this should be our street, but it sure looks different.
(They pop out of the cans and run, Perry following, we then see 2nd Dimension Lawrence walk out of his house, Phineas and Ferb poke out of the bushes)
Dad?
Lawrence (2nd Dimension): Boys, what are you doing here? You'd better get inside before the Doofbot catches you. I'm off to the factory. See you next week!
(He holds up a hook, which is attached to a harness he is wearing. A bus passes, hooking him on, along with several other people, then it drives off.)
Phineas: Wow, well I guess we'd better get inside. (He is about to ring the doorbell when Perry walks up, Phineas looks) Uh, you might want to... Uh, I mean these guys might not know that you're not really a... you know...
(Perry looks down and realizes. He smiles sheepishly, reverts to pet mode, and then chatters)
(Phineas and Ferb stare at him. Phineas rings the bell, they stare again for a second)
Linda (2nd Dimension): (opens the door) Boys, I thought you were in your room! Get back inside and get your Dooferalls back on before someone sees you, if you need me, I'll be hiding in the basement.
Phineas: That was weird. Let's find the other us.

(We see a hand spin a Doofopoly spinner)
Phineas (2nd Dimension): And....hey, I got a one! Pick a Doofopoly instruction card. (reads) "Conform", hey, I can do that!
Phineas: (walks in) Hey guys!
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Oh no, they're replacing us! (he hides behind the couch) I must not have conformed quick enough!
Phineas: No no, it's not like that, we're you guys from another dimension.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): A different dimension? Is that allowed?
Phineas: Apparently.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Oh look! Perry's back! (he runs up and hugs Perry) Where have you been? We missed you so much!
Phineas: Uh, Phineas, he's not your Perry, he came with us.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Oh, sorry. (he reaches to hand him back, then stops) Wait, can I hold him a little longer?
(He hugs Perry again, Ferb and 2nd Dimension Ferb's eyes water and and they both pull out handkerchiefs)
Phineas (2nd Dimension): (hands Perry back) It's just, well, he left one day and never came back. He's been gone for a long time and I'm really worried.
Candace (2nd Dimension): Alright, you know the only time we're allowed to make noise is on Doofens Day, so keep it... (looks and turns around) Are there four of you in this room?
Phineas: Five counting Perry.
Candace (2nd Dimension): I see nothing, I have plausible deniability. (She walks off)
Phineas: Boy, your Candace is much less curious about you're up to.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): What do you mean?
Phineas: Well, it seems like our Candace has spent her entire summer focused on what we're doing.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Summer? I think that was outlawed a long time ago.
Phineas: You guys don't have summer? Well that's-that's terrible.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Summer... It sounds dangerous, yet oddly compelling. What is it?
Phineas: What is summer? Man, where do I begin?
(Song: Summer (Where Do We Begin?))
Phineas: ♪The days are longer, The nights are shorter, The sun is shining♪
Ferb: ♪It's noticeably warmer♪
Phineas: ♪Summer, every single moment is worth its weight in gold♪
♪Summer, it's like the world's best story and it's waiting to be told♪
♪It's ice cream cones and cherry soda dripping down your chin♪
♪It's summer, man, where do we begin?♪
♪Summer is ponds and pools and garden hoses, tryin' to beat the heat♪
♪Summer, bicycles and roller skates and even just bare feet♪
♪It's also... Surfing tidal waves, creating nanobots♪
♪Or locating Frankenstein's brain♪
♪Finding a dodo bird, painting a continent♪
♪Or driving our sister in...♪
Oh, wait. Maybe we're going too fast.
(2nd Dimension Phineas and 2nd Dimension Ferb are seen shivering)
♪Summer, it's crickets and cicadas and a glass of lemonade♪
♪Summer, it's sitting with your brother in the backyard under the shade of a big tree♪
♪That's what it means to me.♪
♪The days are longer♪
Both Phineas: ♪The nights are shorter♪
♪The sun is shining.♪
Ferb (2nd Dimension): ♪It's noticeably warmer♪
Phineas: ♪Summer, every single moment is worth its weight in gold♪
♪Summer, it's like the world's best story and it's waiting to be told♪
♪It's ice cream cones and cherry soda dripping down your chin♪
♪It's summer, man, where do we begin?♪
♪It's summer, man, where do we begin?♪
♪It's summer, man, where do we begin?♪
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Wow, summer sounds like a blast!
Phineas: That's just the tip of the iceberg! Like this summer for instance; we built a roller coaster, we became one-hit wonders, we traveled through time...
TV: ♪Doofenshmirtz Evil News Update!♪
(Perry walks over to it, we see 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz on the TV)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): This is a message for other dimension Perry the Platypus, if you turn yourself in, I promise not to hurt your little friends. If you don't, all bets are off.
(Perry turns to go)
Phineas: (still talking) ...And then we launched ourselves from a giant Perry the Platypult... (he sees Perry sneaking off)
(Perry hides behind a curtain and puts on his fedora, he is about to go)
You're kidding me! (Perry stops) You're actually sneaking away again? So nothing's changed, huh? Did it ever occur to you that we could help you? That we could've made a great team? But I guess you can't have teamwork without trust.
(Perry looks down, ashamed)
You don't need to sneak away anymore, we know your secret, you can just go.
(Perry walks off sadly)
(Song: I Walk Away)
♪I walk away♪
♪From you my friend♪
♪I hope that this♪
♪Is not the end♪
♪Of all the times we figured out♪
♪How to seize the day♪
♪And I walk away♪
(Perry sadly walks off down the road as it begins to rain)

Phineas: You know, I used to think you couldn't spell "platypus" without "us". (walks back inside)
Ferb: Well you can, but it would just be "Platyp". (he shuts the door)
Phineas: Well, I guess if you guys can't help us fix the remote, we could check with Isabella.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Who's Isabella?
Phineas: The girl who lives across the street.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Mom says that talking to neighbors can be dangerous.
Linda (2nd Dimension): (from basement) It's true!
Phineas: Well it's time you meet her, come on, you'll like her.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): What about the Normbots?
(They sneak out)
Phineas: Relax, we've been avoiding them all day, if you're really careful, you can... (they stop in front of a Normbot) Okay, we got to be more careful than that.
Normbot: (Norm Head) May I please see your identification?
Phineas: Uh....
Normbot: (switches to Armored Head) Display your travel papers or be destroyed, display-display...
(It sparks and shudders, then collapses, reveals 2nd Dimension Buford on its back, pulling out wires)
Buford (2nd Dimension): I can't stand these things!
Phineas: Hey, it's Buford!
Buford (2nd Dimension): Do I know you guys?
Phineas: We're Candace's brothers, we're going to Isabella's.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Are you part of the Resistance?
Buford (2nd Dimension): I used to be in the resistance, but I got so good at it, that I started resisting them.

(We cut to Doofenshmirtz and 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz with the Other-Dimensionator)
Doofenshmirtz: Behold, the Other-Dimensionator! Well actually, this is the Other Other-Dimensionator, the Other-Dimensionator is back in the other dimension. (2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz glares) Okay, step 1 is push this button, (pushes it, it powers up) and step 2, stand back in awe! (it starts up, but then shuts down) Awww...
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): That's it?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, now that I think about it, those two boys made some modifications to my design which may have allowed to, you know, to work.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Great, now I need those two boys?
(Just then, a Normbot comes in, holding Perry. It throws him, a wastebasket is put on top of him, and a brick is placed on top of it.)
Both Doofenshmirtz's: Ah, Perry the Platypus!
Doofenshmirtz: Jinx, you owe me TWO sodas!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Listen, Perry the Platypus, I know I said if you turned yourself in, I wouldn't hurt your friends, but change of plans, now I need to hunt them down, which may involve a little hurting, I know that makes me a liar, but hello! Evil! (Perry glares)

(Meanwhile, 2nd Dimension Buford opens the gate to Isabella's house, they walk in)
Buford (2nd Dimension): Isabella's house is right over...
(Just then, a trap door opens under them, they scream as they fall down, and a group of shadowed figures tie them up, we see it's the Firestorm Girls (2nd Dimension Fireside Girls) and 2nd Dimension Isabella)
Isabella (2nd Dimension): (tough voice) What'cha doin'?
Phineas: Isabella?
Isabella (2nd Dimension): Do I know you?
Buford (2nd Dimension): Hey, Isabella!
Isabella (2nd Dimension): Ugh, him I know. Buford, what do you want? I thought you were resisting us?
Buford (2nd Dimension): I was helping Candace's brothers cross the street.
Isabella (2nd Dimension): Candace has two sets of twin brothers?
Phineas: Uh no, he and I are from another dimension, we're trying to get back.
Isabella (2nd Dimension): Alright girls, release them.
(the Firestorm Girls pull on the ropes, untying them, they emerge in a pose, then collapse, a door opens, revealing a computer area)
Isabella (2nd Dimension): Why would you want to come to this dimension anyway?
Phineas: Well, we didn't mean to come here, and now we can't go back unless we fix this device. (shows the remote)
Isabella (2nd Dimension): Well, we may have someone who can help you. Dr. Baljeet!
(A chair turns, revealing 2nd Dimension Baljeet)
Phineas: Baljeet!
Baljeet (2nd Dimension): That's Dr. Baljeet to you. Were you not listening? Here is the crux of your problem. Think of the universe and all of the many dimensions as circular. The energy flows between the dimensions like this, clockwise. Say that this is your dimension, and this is our dimension, you traveled with the flow of energy, so going clockwise would be easy. Going counterclockwise would take 8 million gigawatts of energy, overloading the local power grid. I have prepared a little song to help illustrate my point, (he plays an accordion)
(Song: Baljeet Explanation)
♪ If you travel through dimensions, going clockwise makes it easy, going counter-clockwise would take 8 million gigawatt's of energy, overloading the local power grid! ♪
(pauses) I know, it needs a chorus. Anyway, without 8 million gigawatts, you would have to go clockwise, the long way around. Theoretically, you would get home, but there is no telling how many dimensions you would have to go through.
Phineas: Well do you think you can get enough power to open the portal backwards so we can get home?
Baljeet (2nd Dimension): Well, we should probably ask our leader...
Candace (2nd Dimension): (in deep voice) Ask your leader what?
(We see what looks like the silhouette of a tall, muscular man, we hear coughing, and reveals Candace-2 showing the silhouette was a bush)
(deep voice) Who made the topiary out of wild parsnips? I'm allergic, and it's messing up my voice!
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Candace, you're the leader of the Resistance?
Candace (2nd Dimension): (deep voice) What are you two- (coughs, normal voice) -doing here? Never mind, I'll deal with you later. (walks up to Phineas and Ferb) You two! I've been spending all these years trying to keep my brothers safe, and suddenly their faces are all over the Doofen Channel!
Phineas: We're just trying to get home.
Candace (2nd Dimension): Well, what's stopping you?
Phineas: Right now? Quantum Physics.
Candace (2nd Dimension): Baljeet?
Baljeet (2nd Dimension): We need to generate 8 million gigawatts for inter-dimensional travel.
Candace (2nd Dimension): Then we've got work to do, Isabella, start redirecting the power.
Isabella (2nd Dimension): Aye, aye!
Candace (2nd Dimension): Gretchen, monitor the Doofen Channel. Make sure we're not raising any alarms.
Gretchen (2nd Dimension): I'm on it.
Candace (2nd Dimension): Buford, keep resisting.
Buford (2nd Dimension): No!
Candace (2nd Dimension): Excellent. (deep voice) And will somebody get rid of that topiary?
(Katie (2nd Dimension) and Ginger (2nd Dimension) lower down and pull it away, she coughs, normal voice) Thank you.

(At 1st Dimension Flynn-Fletcher backyard, Candace and Stacy are there)
Candace: Oh, great and powerful Mysterious Force. I know you are just trying to protect my brothers, but I am just trying to protect them too from their dangerous inventions. Show yourself so that I may reason with you! (nothing happens) Maybe we should build a shrine to it.
Stacy: Candace, that's ridic... (the dimensional portal opens up)
Both: Ah! It's the mysterious force! (hides behind a tree)

(At 2nd dimension, we see the remote hooked up to a device)
Phineas: Ferb, I think we got it, it looks like home!
(Ferb gives a thumbs up)

(1st dimension)
Stacy: What do we do now?
Candace: I don't know, I can't believe it actually worked.

(2nd dimension)
Phineas: Well, thanks everyone. Hey, where's Per... Oh, that's right.
TV: ♪Doofenshmirtz Evil News Update!♪ (they look, we see a Normbot reporting the news)
Normbot: This just in, our supreme leader has just announced the capture of public enemy number one, Perry the alternate-dimension platypus! (shows Perry's mugshot, an X goes through it) I guess we won't be seeing him any more, except as a platyborg. (the channel switches to a test pattern) It's 3:30, we now conclude our broadcast day.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): (voice-over) Now go to bed!
Phineas: We've got to save him!
Candace (2nd Dimension): Oh no, too risky. You two have to get back to your dimension.
Phineas: We're not going anywhere without our platypus!
Buford (2nd Dimension): I thought you said he was just using you as a cover?
Phineas: I know what I said, I was hurt. But even if it was all an act, he's still a part of this family, and we're not leaving without him.
Baljeet (2nd Dimension): I may never be able to open this again.
Phineas: It doesn't matter, we're going back for him.
Candace (2nd Dimension): Well then, you're on your own.
Phineas: Fine, just tell us where Doofenshmirtz keeps his prisoners.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): We have to help them!
Candace (2nd Dimension): No we don't.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Yes we do, remember how we felt when OUR Perry disappeared?
(2nd Dimension Candace looks at their sad faces)
Candace (2nd Dimension): Oh criminy, I must be crazy. Alright, we can get there through the tunnels.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Yes!
Candace (2nd Dimension): Let's suit up, people!

(1st dimension)
Candace: You know what, Stacy? I'm tired of the mysterious force pushing me around. I'm gonna show it who's boss! (she heads off)
Stacy: Candace!

(2nd dimension)
Baljeet (2nd Dimension): I will try to keep it open for as long as possible, but the window is very unstable, even the slightest disturbance could cause it to collapse.
(Candace screams and leaps through the portal, it shuts closed)
Like that, for instance.
Phineas: Hi, Candace.
Candace: You guys are so... wait, why are there four of you?
Phineas: Oh, these guys are from this dimen...
Candace: Are we inside the mysterious force?
Phineas: I'm not sure I understand the quest...
Candace: And why is Isabella suddenly fashionable?
Isabella (2nd Dimension): What do you mean, "suddenly"?
Candace: Seriously, where are we?
Phineas: (pulls Candace) Candace, I'm sure you have a million questions, but right now, we have to save Perry from being turned into a cyborg.
Candace: What?
Phineas: We'll explain on the way.
Isabella (2nd Dimension): So, how do I dress in your dimension?
Candace: (notices 2nd Dimension Candace) Hey, is that me? I look good!
(2nd Dimension Phineas and 2nd Dimension Ferb run after them, 2nd Dimension Candace stops them)
Candace (2nd Dimension): Oh no, you two stay here.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): But we want to help.
Candace (2nd Dimension): That's an order! (runs off)

(Later, we see them riding through a cave on some train tracks in mining cars)
Candace: Wait, so in this dimension, Perry is a secret agent?
Phineas: No, in this dimension, he's a cyborg.
Candace: So, where is he an agent?
Phineas: That would be in our dimension, but we're not in our dimension right now.
Candace: Okay, I'm having trouble processing this.
Phineas: Now I wish I hadn't thrown away that pamphlet.
Candace: And why are we in mine cars?
Isabella (2nd Dimension): This will take us as far as the underground entrance to his headquarters.
Candace (2nd Dimension): (showing a map) From there, we go up the ventilation shaft, the detainment center is on Level 4.
Buford (2nd Dimension): And the snack bar is on Level 5! (2nd Dimension Candace glares) If there's time!
Candace (2nd Dimension): Ugh, Buford. (Puts away the map)
Buford (2nd Dimension): I'm just gonna get some nachos.
(2nd Dimension Candace leaps up the cars and uses a Bo staff to hit a turnstile, the tracks move, and the go down another route, 2nd Dimension Candace sits near Candace)
Candace: So if there's another me, and another them, then there must also be another Jeremy Johnson here, right?
Candace (2nd Dimension): Huh? Oh yeah, Johnson Jeremy, leads a three-man strike team on the north side. Good soldier.
Candace: Good soldier? That's all you think of him? Don't you think he's dreamy, or cool, or even cute? Tell me at least you think he's cute!
Candace (2nd Dimension): Cute doesn't win the war, kid.
Candace: Oh... well I guess, but what do you guys do around here for, you know, fun?
Candace (2nd Dimension): Look, Candace is it? No offense, but fun isn't really on my agenda. You know, since Doofenshmirtz took over the Tri-State Area, even though I was a little girl, I've been focused on one thing, and one thing only, he's going down, down, down...
Candace: Down, I know, but what about BFF's, or slumber parties, or busting your little brothers?
Candace (2nd Dimension): Busting my brothers? I've spent every day of my life trying to protect my little brothers. I had to grow up pretty quick to make sure they didn't have to.
Candace: Gee, you make growing up sound like it's a bad thing.
Candace (2nd Dimension): It is what it is, I'll do whatever I have to do to protect the ones I love.
(2nd Dimension Phineas and 2nd Dimension Ferb appear behind them)
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Aww, thanks, sis!
Candace (2nd Dimension): What are you guys doing here?
Phineas (2nd Dimension): We want to help.
Isabella (2nd Dimension): Sir, we're nearing the target.
Candace (2nd Dimension): Ugh! (to 2nd Dimension Phineas and 2nd Dimension Ferb) Don't move!
(she leaps into the forward car and uses her staff to jam the wheels just as they reach an entry way, they all get out)
Okay people, change of plans, this is as far as we go.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): We're not gonna help them?
Candace (2nd Dimension): No, we're going to get you two home where it's safe.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): But we want to...
Candace (2nd Dimension): Look, this isn't our fight, it's theirs, and you two shouldn't have gotten involved!
(she hits a button and a door opens)
Maybe none of us should have. Okay, we're outta here.
(2nd Dimension Phineas and 2nd Dimension Ferb get into the cars and she pushes it back. 2nd Dimension Isabella and 2nd Dimension Buford follow the others into the doorway.)
Buford (2nd Dimension): I don't remember it being so dark down here.
Candace (2nd Dimension): Dark?
(The lights come on, revealing Normbots surrounding them)
Doofenshmirtz: That's because it's a trap!
(laughs as he comes out with 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz, who is holding Perry by a collar chain)
And if it was light, you would've seen us and run away, hence ruining the trap!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): I think they get that.
Phineas: Perry! We uh, well... well, we uh, came to rescue you! (pause) So far it's not going as well as we'd hoped. We didn't have time to, you know, plan something elaborate, but we could've, I don't know, created some sort of diversion, just in case... (sighs) Yeah, we could've thought this out more.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): (laughs) I got you, and I got your little friends, too. Game over. You lose! I win! Mark this the hour of your doom, Perry the Platypus! (checks his watch) Three-forty...ugh, I got one of these watches with just the little hash marks on it. It doesn't even have numbers on it! Let's just say it's between 3:30 and 4:00, Eastern Standard Time.
(Perry's eyes widen in realization, he pushes a button on his watch, showing a hologram of Major Monogram showering. He yelps and covers himself. Both Doofenshmirtz's turn away in disgust, as do Platyborg and the Normbots. 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz lets go of Perry's chain, and he runs, still having the hologram on.)
Major Monogram: (holograph) I told you, not between 3:30 and 4:00!
(Perry goes up to Phineas and Ferb, who also have their eyes closed and grabs them, pulling them away)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): They're getting away!
(They run out the door as the Normbots chase them. 2nd Dimension Candace hits the button, shutting the door, and an alarm sound goes off.)
Candace (2nd Dimension): I knew this was a bad idea. Okay, everyone in the cars!
(they all hop in, and she pushes) Go go go! Isabella, start the motor!
Isabella (2nd Dimension): Yes sir!
(she leaps to the front as the Normbots melt through the door)
I got it!
(she starts it as the bots chase them)
(Phineas and Ferb pull 2nd Dimension Candace in)
Candace (2nd Dimension): (to 2nd Dimension Phineas and 2nd Dimension Ferb) You two, keep your heads down and remember your training!
Phineas (2nd Dimension): But we never had any training!
Candace (2nd Dimension): Well, keep your heads down! (they duck) Consider yourselves trained.
(the Normbots approach) This is going to be close. (she picks up her staff and twirls it) All right, you rust buckets, let's dance.
(she smashes away several as Phineas, Ferb, Perry and Candace watch)
Phineas: (to Candace) Uh, can you do that?
Candace: Apparently...
(2nd Dimension Candace sinks her staff into the neck of one bot. She uses it to vault and hit another, then rips the head off the first bot. 2nd Dimension Buford stares wide eyed.)
Buford (2nd Dimension): I am so in love with her right now.
Isabella (2nd Dimension): What?
Buford (2nd Dimension): Nothing!
Candace (2nd Dimension): If we can get to the north tunnel before they get to us, I can trip the security door. (Perry pulls his collar off his neck) Isabella, give us more throttle!
Isabella (2nd Dimension): It's all the way in, sir!
Candace (2nd Dimension): Alright, hang tough, this is going to get hairy. (She leaps away. Perry wields his collar and chain as a weapon, Phineas picks up a wrench and Ferb takes off his shoes and ties the laces together to make nun-chucks.)
(2nd Dimension Candace leaps to the front)
Isabella (2nd Dimension): Can we make those turns at this speed?
Candace (2nd Dimension): Well we're about to find out! (she uses her staff to hit the turnstile, they swerve)
(Perry wraps his chain around one of the Normbots' arms and attaches the collar to a sign, causing the chain to rip the arm off. It lands in the car where 2nd Dimension Buford and Candace are, and its laser fires, setting fire to it; they back up.)
Buford (2nd Dimension): Whoa, whoa, whoa!
(Candace screams, they go through a tunnel and approach an entryway)
Candace (2nd Dimension): There it is. We should be okay if we can just hold off these...
(The bots are hit with lasers, she looks and sees Phineas, Ferb, and Perry using the robot arm as a laser cannon.)
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Can we do that?
Candace (2nd Dimension): No, keep your head down.
(2nd Dimension Phineas ducks back down)
(Platyborg flies down; his hands turn to lasers and he fires, hitting two of the wheels. The car skids.)
Phineas: (drops the ammo) No, no, no...!
Isabella (2nd Dimension): We're slowing down, sir!
Candace (2nd Dimension): Keep it on the floor.
Isabella (2nd Dimension): It's on the floor! (looks) There's too much track. I don't think we're gonna make it!
Candace (2nd Dimension): Everyone to the front car. We're going to have to cut loose these cars...
(Flames shoot up, blocking Candace, Perry, Phineas, and Ferb)
Isabella (2nd Dimension): The motor's overheating!
(2nd Dimension Candace looks at Phineas, Ferb, Candace, and Perry, then to 2nd Dimension Phineas and 2nd Dimension Ferb, she looks)
Candace (2nd Dimension): Sorry guys, you're on your own.
(She hits the lock with her staff, causing the cars to dislodge. She opens the doorway as they go in and it seals up again.)
Phineas (2nd Dimension): What are you doing?
Candace (2nd Dimension): My job, protecting you two.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): We have to go back and help them!
Candace (2nd Dimension): That's not our fight.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): But we could've made it. We could've all made it!
Candace (2nd Dimension): Or we could've all been captured, and I couldn't let that happen. These are the tough choices, people, someone has to be the adult here. You guys are safe, and that's what matters.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): But-but-but...
Candace (2nd Dimension): End of discussion.
(2nd Dimension Phineas looks down sadly)
Buford (2nd Dimension): Man, I had my heart set on those nachos.

(1st dimension, Stacy has a display table set up)
Stacy: Uh, mysterious force. I feel a little awkward talking to you, because I didn't believe in you at first. Because lets face it, it's crazy, but then I saw you eat my friend, so, I've made a little shrine here. It's...It's nice, there's a banana, and, uh, oh, Mr. Miggins! So, I hope this makes up for the disbelief thing. Are we, uh, are we good?

(2nd dimension, DEI. 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz talks to Phineas and Ferb, who are held by Normbots.)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Now you have no choice but to fix my machine!
Phineas: No.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): That's not one of your choices. Fix my machine!
Phineas: No.
Candace: Can, uh, can I say something? So I think I'm up to date on the whole Perry-agent thing. Strangely, that's the most normal thing that's happened this afternoon... But who exactly is this guy?
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Fix it!
Phineas: No.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Look, I would make myself do it, but apparently, he's an idiot.
Doofenshmirtz: Hey!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Fix the machine!
Phineas: No.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Very well then. You've forced my hand! (he pulls out a dog sock puppet)
(high pitched voice) Fix the machine!
Phineas: No.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Really? When I was your age, I did anything a puppet told me to do!
Phineas: How old do you think we are?
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): I don't know, one, two? It's hard to tell with the one eye. Anyway, I don't know why you're being so uncooperative. All I'm asking you to do is make my machine work so I can invade and conquer your world and enslave your loved ones.
Phineas: See, that's just it. Why would we do something that would lead to our own self-destruction?
(Doofenshmirtz hears this, his eyes widen in realization)
Doofenshmirtz: Self-destruction? Self-destruct... Wait, wait! I remember now! They took out my self-destruct button! (he pulls it out) I don't know why I put it back in, but here, I'll just rewire this, like so, and there! (he clips in a wire and turns it on, it forms a portal) It's working! It's working! It is functioning properly!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): (smirks at Phineas) Well well, look who just became redundant! Send them to their doom! (Platyborg points to Candace) Yes, her too. (He points to Perry) Yes yes, everyone. Doom, doom, doom, and...
Both Doofenshmirtz's: Doom!
Doofenshmirtz: Jinx, you owe me THREE sodas!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Okay, doom for him, too.
Doofenshmirtz: What? But, but I'm you!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): (sticks out the puppet) Doom!
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, if I had a nickel for every time I was doomed by a puppet, I'd have two nickels, which isn't a lot, but it's weird that it happened twice, right?

(We then cut to the same lava pit we started the movie off in. Phineas, Perry, Candace, Ferb, and Doofenshmirtz are chained and led by Normbots. 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz appears on screen.)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Welcome, doomed guests. Come on. Keep trudging. Doom is that away!
(they approach a large covered item)
Candace: I would say so far, adulthood gets a three.
Doofenshmirtz: You know, this may be as good as it gets. (they walk onto a rocky area)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): And now for my all-time favorite game...
(the tarp is pulled off the item, revealing a cage holding the Goozim; it roars)
Poke the Goozim with a stick, surrounded by lava. (the pathway retracts) My second favorite game is backgammon, love it!
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, wait, hold the phone. I can be useful. What if you need a kidney? Or a stand-in for boring functions you have to attend, or another kidney?
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Doom!
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, pooh.
(Several Normbots poke the Goozim with spears. It roars, blowing their hair back. Another bot turns a crank, opening the cage.)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Cranky, cranky, cranky. Oh, I love the crank!
(It roars again)
Phineas: I'll be honest, Ferb. I'm having a hard time putting a positive spin on this. Blah blah blah, two-car garage, etcetera, etcetera.
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, well, welcome to MY life! (The Goozim roars. He hides behind a Normbot.)
Ferb: Whoa, déjà vu-ish.
(Perry bites at his cuffs. A Normbot passes by.)
Phineas: Hey, Perry. Check out that guard! (we see a ring of keys on a hook on his back) The keys!
(Perry looks down at the keyhole on his collar and moves his cuff to reveal the watch. He activates the electro-magnet and fires, pulling the keys to them.)
Phineas: Cool! (see the Normbot is also being pulled to them) Ah! Look out!
(It hits into them, and flies erratically. Ferb climbs on its back and opens a panel, which hits Doofenshmirtz on the head.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ow! Is this the plan? (they fly into the air and over the lava, he screams) Please tell me this isn't the plan!
(Ferb works with the Normbot's wiring)
Normbot: You are tampering with the property of... (he sparks and turns to the Norm head) Let's make omelets!
(It flies and hits into two Normbots. The Goozim grabs them and shreds them. Doofenshmirtz screams as they fly; he hits the head of the Normbot turning the crank, knocking it off.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ow! Can you get a little more lift on this thing? I think I just bruised a kidney.
Normbot: My bicycle is missing!
(The Normbots smash into each other, destroying them. They fall onto the top of the cage, the Goozim looks up. The headless Normbot holding the crank collapses, the crank spins and shuts the cage.)
All: Yay! (the door then breaks off and falls down) Awww.
(The Goozim wedges itself out of the cage. It grabs the door in its teeth and throws it.)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Ha, ha! Yes! Go, Goozim!
(A Normbot comes in wearing an apron and oven mitts, he holds a muffin on a tray)
Normbot: It's muffin time, sir.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Already?
(It turns, Perry looks wide eyed and frantically tries to unlock his chains. The Goozim roars, they scream and tumble together. The keys drop, landing on the bottom of the cage. Perry looks, he then looks up and points to the edge of the cage. He begins to climb down it.)
Phineas: Okay, I see where you're going with this. (They all climb)
Candace: I officially prefer our dimension.
(Perry reaches the bottom and moves to the keys, the others following)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, this may not be the best time to tell you, but I actually flunked jungle gym in grade school. I just couldn't get the hang of all that climbing and...
(The Goozim roars and swipes. He yells and falls, taking the others with him. Perry grabs the bar, the keys shake and fall, but Candace accidentally catches them. Perry holds on. Doofenshmirtz sees the keys.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh great, you caught it! Quick, unlock me!
Candace: Are you even paying attention?
(Doofenshmirtz looks down, seeing he is hanging directly over the lava)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, that's right. Uh, it can wait, later.
(Perry struggles to hang on, the Goozim roars. 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz, eating some muffins, turns back and sees, he spits.)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): More guards!
(The Normbot comes back with a tray full of muffins)
Normbot: It's muffin time, sir!
Doofenshmirtz-2: You're broken! (hits him with a muffin)
(More Normbots swarm out, the Goozim roars and swipes. Phineas gulps, he hears a rumbling noise, he looks and sees one of the large lawn gnomes move.)
(It hits the screen, causing cracks, we see 2nd Dimension Candace is behind it, pushing with her feet. The gnome tips over and she rides it, she unhooks two devices from her belt. One fires a grappler, which ties onto a bar on the ceiling, the other she places on the back of the gnome. It shoots a grapple which shoots and hooks onto the front of the gnome, she hooks the two together and the gnome swings, smashing into the Normbots.)
Phineas: Yay, other dimension Candace!
Candace (2nd Dimension): Phineas, catch!
(She pulls out the remote and throws it. He catches it, he sees and gasps.)
Phineas: The remote!
(More bots swarm in; he looks down at the lava, his eyes widen, then looks up)
Perry, let go!
(Perry looks surprised)
Candace: What? No, don't let go!
Phineas: Perry, trust me!
Candace: Two words: La-va! (Perry struggles)
Phineas: Trust me!
(Perry looks, he lets go and they fall. The Normbots crash into each other, the Goozim roars and dives after them. Phineas aims the remote and opens a portal in the lava. They fall in and the Goozim squeezes in after them.)
(They land in the pinkish jungle of the other dimension and bounce around on the plants. They land on the ground and the Goozim lands, now compressed into a circular shape. He growls, but then sees his body, he whimpers and slinks off. Candace smirks and holds up the keys.)

(Back in the 2nd dimension)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): They opened another portal! Get after them!
(Normbots fly down, Candace-2 yells as she swings by on the gnome)
And her, that banshee screaming girl. Get her too! (bots fly after her)

(In the other dimension, the others are unlocked. Perry unlocks Doofenshmirtz.)
Doofenshmirtz: Thank you, Perry the Platypus.
(Lasers fire, they look; Normbots pour through the portal.)
Normbot: Stop where you are. You cannot leave.
2nd Normbot: (Norm head) I use aggression to mask my insecurities! (he turns to the armored head and fires, Phineas dodges)
Phineas: The portal! (he shuts it, the other bots hit the lava and melt)
Normbot: (melting) (falling into lava) Wow, I could go for a (slightly muffled voice) lemonade!
(two Normbots hold a struggling 2nd Dimension Candace)
Normbot: The portal closed, sir.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Oh pooh. Oh well, time to start the invasion! (he goes, the bots follow) And somebody get me a muffin!
(the muffin Normbot follows, now carrying two trays filled with muffins)
Normbot: But it's not muffin time, sir!

(Other dimension, the others run from the bots)
Phineas: Alright, follow me. We're going around clockwise!
(he aims the remote and fires, opening a portal and they leap through, the bots follow)
(as the song goes on, they go into different dimensions)
(Song: Brand New Reality)
♪If there's no hospitality♪
♪Just get out of town♪
♪You can be light on formality and say♪
♪I guess I'll see you around♪
♪You've got no obligations♪
♪Nothin' holding you down♪
♪Find a new situation and say♪
♪I guess I'll see you around♪
♪You've got no time to waste♪
♪On sentimentality♪
♪Get out and find yourself♪
♪A brand new reality♪
♪Get out and find yourself♪
♪A brand new reality♪
♪A particle duality♪
♪A new dimensionality, yeah♪
♪Well, sometimes it's appropriate♪
♪To stop for a snack♪
♪If you do then I hope you get back♪
♪I guess I'll see you around♪
♪Hopping clockwise through dimensions♪
♪Is a dangerous thing♪
♪But it seems to help a lot if we sing♪
♪And we can sing about♪
♪A brand new reality♪
♪A brand new reality♪
♪A brand new reality♪
♪A brand♪ (repeats as they go through several dimensions, with the bots following)
♪I guess I'll see you around♪

(1st dimension, the kids are still in the park)
Buford: Alright, how about two Kafka's for your Dostoevsky?
Baljeet: Stop wasting my time, Buford.
(the portal opens and the others emerge)
Phineas: Wait, I think this is it.
Isabella: Where have you guys been?
Phineas: This is it.

(DEI, the roof opens; 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz laughs evilly)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): I spy with my one little eye, a new Tri-State Area that's one dictator short of a dictatorship. (he pushes a button and the Other-Dimensionator rises on a platform) Well, that's all about to change, pretty soon I'll be ruling over two Tri-State Area's, a virtual Six-State Area!
(He hits a button with a Normbot picture on it, 2nd dimension, the Normbots fly to the Other Dimensionator portal)
Fly, fly, my Normbots! We've got some oppressing to do! (he laughs as they emerge)

(Park)
Baljeet: Uh, why is Perry wearing a hat?
Phineas: We don't have time to explain, we've got to try and stop an evil d...
(they see thousands upon thousands of Normbots spill out of the portal)
Candace: Oh no, it's too late!

(Danville city streets, a woman talks to a man)
Woman #1: They're never going to fire her, and... (there is a flash) Hey, did you see that?
Man #1: No, I... (he turns and gasps) What's going on?
Old Woman: Oh my!
Woman #2: What is it?
Man #2: It's a comb over, I know, I should really just shave it!
(The bots swarm down)
Man #3: Not happening. Not happening!
Woman #3: My watermelon!
(The Normbots patrol the city, people run and scream)
Normbot: All vehicles must stop. (It grabs a car and throws it, it impacts into a wall)
Man #4: It's okay, it's a rental!
(the Love Händel tour bus drives through the streets, Danny honks the horn, a Normbot blasts the bus, it flips on its side, they open the doors and look out)
Danny: Oh great, Albuquerque '93 all over again.
(Sherman ducks as a laser is fired)

(Park)
Phineas: I wish alternate dimension Candace was here, she took out like thirty of those guys with a lawn gnome.
(While he talks, Perry's watch flashes. He answers, projecting Monogram's head.)
Major Monogram: Agent P, our agents are being overwhelmed by the sheer number of robots coming into our dimension. You must get to Doof's headquarters and stop him!
Phineas: Aye aye, sir! We're ready to serve!
Major Monogram: Oh no, you kids need to go home, where it's safe!
Phineas: With all due respect, sir, we've been through quite a lot together. We're a team now.
Major Monogram: Nope, far too dangerous, and besides, our insurance won't cover it. Tell 'em Agent P.
Phineas: Come on, Perry. Let's go kick some robot chassis!
(Perry takes off his collar and hands it to them) Perry? (Perry salutes and runs off) Wow, I guess we're going home then. Hey, where's Dr. D?

(DEI: Doofenshmirtz runs to the front door. He pats himself down and then pulls on the door. It's locked, he pushes a button on the intercom.)
Mrs. Thompson: Hello?
Doofenshmirtz: Hello, Mrs. Thompson. It's me, Heinz. I think I left my keys in the other dimension. Can you buzz me in?
Mrs. Thompson: Who is this?
Doofenshmirtz: Heinz Doofenshmirtz, your neighbor, for like 12 years.
Mrs. Thompson: Who?
Doofenshmirtz: I live in the penthouse. I wear lab coats a lot. Speak with the accent I am currently speaking to you with.
Mrs. Thompson: Just like my neighbor upstairs.
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, exactly!
Mrs. Thompson: Oh, he's not home. You'll have to come back later.
Doofenshmirtz: No no no, wait... (she hangs up) Aww!

(2nd dimension: 2nd Dimension Candace is in a cell, bouncing a ball against a wall)
Candace (2nd Dimension): This is just beautiful. I decide to do the right thing, and I end up in a cell. (she looks out the barred window) Well, at least my brothers are safe... (she lays on the cot and bounces the ball) What lesson am I supposed to be learning here?
(she hears a noise, the lock on the door is cut out and the door opens, we see 2nd Dimension Jeremy)
Jeremy (2nd Dimension): I'm Jeremy Johnson. I'm here to rescue you.
Candace (2nd Dimension): Johnson, Jeremy?
Jeremy (2nd Dimension): (saluting) Yes sir, and I also picked up a couple new recruits.
(We see 2nd Dimension Phineas and 2nd Dimension Ferb in commando style gear)
Phineas (2nd Dimension): We figured out a way to bypass the entire security grid, it was cool!
Candace (2nd Dimension): What? You brought my little brothers? Are you out of your mind, soldier?
Jeremy (2nd Dimension): I didn't know they were your brothers, but I should've known. They're smart and courageous, just like you.
Candace (2nd Dimension): You think I'm smart and courageous?
Jeremy (2nd Dimension): Well, yeah. Uh, sir.
Candace (2nd Dimension): Uh, good work, soldier.
Jeremy (2nd Dimension): We should probably get out of here while we can.
(he hands her a pair of sunglasses) Most of the Normbots are away in the other dimension, we can slip away pretty easily.
Candace (2nd Dimension): The Normbots are in the other dimension? This isn't the time to escape. This is the time to make our move! (she puts on the glasses) Let's go!
Jeremy and Phineas (both 2nd Dimension): Yes sir! (they head out)
Candace (2nd Dimension): Boys, wait! Thanks for rescuing me. I'm really proud of you both. (they hug)
Phineas (2nd Dimension): And we're proud of you too... Sir.
Buford (2nd Dimension): I got nachos! Who wants some? (they stare) Nobody?

(1st dimension: Stacy is on her knees next to the altar)
Stacy: Oh, mysterious force. You can see I'm really trying here. Please bring back Candace!
Candace: Oh, hi Stacy.
(Stacy turns and sees Candace is right next to her)
Stacy: And I also want a car!

(Phineas and Ferb's house)
Phineas: I still can't believe Perry wanted us to go home. I mean, look at this!
(he motions to a mini TV, a news report is on)
Reporter: There's robots all over the Tri-State Area! And now for the weather.
(they cut to a man on the street in the middle of the swarm, holding an umbrella)
Weatherman: There's robots, Phil, ROBOTS! (he screams and runs)
Phineas: You'd think he'd need all the help he can... (He hears a beeping sound) Wait, what's that? Ferb, do you hear that?
(he reaches into his pocket, pulling out the locket, which is what is beeping) It's Perry's locket!
(they walk up to the couch, the beeping intensifies) Oh, it's like a homing device.
(they climb up to the mirror, the beep gets higher, the beeps get to its fastest, Ferb removes the mirror, revealing the tunnel, Phineas smiles)
Shall we?
(Ferb motions to Phineas, they get sucked in and land in Perry's lair)
This must be Perry's lair.
Computer: (Female voice) Welcome, Phineas and Ferb. Please insert the key.
Phineas: (to Ferb) Do you have a key? (Ferb takes out a pitch pipe and blows a note)
Computer: Please insert the key.
Phineas: Good try.
Computer: Please insert the key. Please insert the key. (it points down, showing a keyhole shaped like Perry's unfolded locket)
Phineas: That's odd, it's a shaped keyhole, it kinda looks like—wait a minute!
(He pulls out the locket and tears off the collar. He puts it on the keyhole, unfolds it, and pushes down. The hole glows red and shines. There is a beeping sound.)
Computer: Phineas and Ferb, this message is top secret, for your ears only. If you're hearing this, the Tri-State Area is at alert level Alpha Red. Agent P needs your help.
Phineas: How does he know we'll know what to do?
Computer: He knows you will know what to do. He also knows you are the only ones capable of helping him, because you two are the only ones capable of creating these.
(A wall opens, they look)
Voice: Auto scan replication initiated.
(A device shoots out red beams of light, recreating many of Phineas and Ferb’s inventions from past episodes of the series, such as the treehouse robots, The Beak armor and Rover)
Phineas: Ferb, I think I know what we're gonna do today!

(The Normbots fly through the city. One fires a laser, blasting off the Tri-State Area flag on top of City Hall. It is replaced with one with 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz's face. The citizens watch in fear.)
Normbots: You have a new leader. Put on your Dooferalls.
(A Normbot measures a man)
Normbot: 36 inch waist.
Man #4: No way. I'm a 34!

(2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz laughs as the bots march. Pinky secretly watches from a hole in a fence as a squad of Normbots come by. He uses his collar tag to reflect the sun, sending a signal to Peter the Panda, who is up in a building with several other OWCA agents. He motions, they push a dumpster. It falls and land on a makeshift catapult. Sending a load of tires onto the bots, Peter and the other agents leap down, and Pinky and a mouse and frog agent run out, they attack the bots.)
(Agent T (Turtle), a raccoon agent, and a cat agent trap a bot in a tire and roll him into a wall. They smile, but then another bot throws a tire at them. The bot they threw flexes, snapping the tire, and the other agents are quickly beaten and thrown into a pile. The Normbots encircle them, when suddenly, Perry leaps down in front of them and assumes a martial arts pose.)
(A bot tries to hit him, he dodge. Perry leaps on another Normbot, then leaps away as it is hit instead of him. He leaps onto another Normbot, one of the other bots aims its laser. Perry leaps away as the laser is fired, melting the head off the other bot. Perry does the same thing to several other Normbots, until one grabs him from behind and slams him against a wall. It is about to punch him, when one of the radio controlled baseballs hits it in the face. The bot looks and it keeps hitting it, smashing its face in, it drops and Perry is freed.)
(The ball flies back to Phineas, who is wielding the launcher atop Rover. Perry salutes him, Phineas salutes back; Rover then bounds down the street. We hear a mooing and see Ferb wearing a cowboy hat, leading a stampede of the Robot Bulls. Rover and the bulls tear through the Normbots as the agents cheer. Perry leaps up on top of Rover and he and Phineas hug.)
Phineas: So, I guess you trusted us after all. (Perry smiles)
(The kids from Danville all arrive, each riding or wielding one of Phineas and Ferb's past inventions. Baljeet emerges from a phone booth in the top part of the Beak suit)
Baljeet: Oh, I was wrong, it was not for me!
(Buford stomps in, riding the platy-posterior)
Buford: Heads up, platy-posterior coming through!
(Candace and Stacy arrive, each controlling one of the treehouse robots)
Candace: Now this is what I call busting!
(Stacy pushes a button, the two robots bump fists. The other kids show up, riding many other inventions, such as the rollercoaster, Meap's upgraded ship, and the continent painting helicopter from the theme song, a copter brings in the robot shark from "The Belly of the Beast"', piloted by Django Brown. The paper-mâché plane from "De Plane! De Plane!" flies by, and the hot air balloons from "Last Train to Bustville" drop several containers, out of them march several small armies of Phinedroids and Ferbots. Albert in his dragon costume rides in, driving the Holy Mackerel. Peter, Pinky, and Agent T get on the kiddie rides.)
Phineas: Alright, everyone. Let's kick some robot chassis!
(they cheer, Love Händel walks up)
Danny: Phineas! Anything we can do?
Phineas: Yeah, musical accompaniment!
(They play as the kids charge into battle)
(Song: Robot Riot)
♪We're gonna kick some robot chassis♪
♪So you better tell your robot nation♪
♪To say your robot prayer, 'cause you better prepare♪
♪For an automaton annihilation♪
♪You think you're gonna take us down♪
♪Well, mechanical man you just try it♪
♪You gonna ride that rail out of town♪
♪This is a Robot Riot!♪
♪I think you know what I mean♪
♪This is a Robot Riot♪
♪I'm gonna break you down♪
♪And sell you for scrap metal♪
♪But I'll keep enough to build myself a trampoline♪
♪'Cause your momma was a blender♪
♪And your dad was just a washing machine♪
♪I'm gonna rip you up, I'm gonna break you down♪
♪I'm gonna take you to a chop shop down town♪
♪You know that you'll be dreadin' this android Armageddon♪
♪I think you better check your fluids 'cause I know you're sweatin'♪
♪You know you're gonna lose and sing the robot blues♪
♪You'll blow a fuse and take a robot snooze♪
♪I will deactivate ya, because I kinda hate ya♪
♪Don't wanna beat around the bushes, gonna decimate ya♪
(Phineas and Perry fire the remote controlled baseballs, smashing them into the Normbots, they high five. Stacy chases a group of bots, Candace slides down the roller coaster track and they both leap, the two smash together, crushing the Normbots between them. The Phinedroids and Ferbots leap off the wings of the paper mache plane and swarm down onto the bots. Isabella rams her ride into one and pushes it to another group, she leaps off as it slams into them, blowing them up.)
Isabella: Yes!
♪Oh man it's on!♪
♪I'm gonna rip you up and put you back together♪
♪In a new configuration just to mow my lawn♪
♪'Cause your sister is a fridge and you know her light is always on♪
♪This is a Robot Riot!♪
(Baljeet charges, he slaps at them, knocking the bots away)
(Ferb charges through more bots with the bulls)
(Perry and Phineas look up at the Other Dimensionator on top of DEI)
Phineas: We gotta do something about that portal!
(Perry fires a grappler hook up to the roof and holds out his hand for Phineas)
Phineas: Ferb, we're going to try and stop the portal!
♪This is a Robot Riot!♪
♪You better listen up♪
♪ I got some breaking news (Robot Riot)♪
♪I'm gonna melt you down and pour you on some baby shoes (Robot Riot)♪
♪I'm really on a mission♪
♪I call it demolition (Robot Riot)♪
♪And when i'm through you're gonna need more than a new transmission♪
♪All right!♪
(Ferb gives a thumbs up, Phineas takes Perry's hand and they zip up to the roof. They see Doofenshmirtz-2 manning the controls, and hides behind a pillar. Love Händel continues playing on Rover as Candace and Stacy emerge out of the wrecked treehouse robots and high five, a couple Normbots fire and they dodge.)
(Phineas looks at 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz. He motions to Perry, they nod and try to sneak over, but Platyborg lands in front of them, he grabs and throws them, they land and Phineas' baseball launcher slides away. Perry motions to the Other Dimensionator and hands Phineas his grappler, Phineas runs off as Platyborg lands, he and Perry grapple)
(Phineas fires a grapple hook up to the platform and rises up. 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz hears and looks.)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): What? Oh!
(He throws a razor disc, which cuts the cord. Phineas falls, but lands on the couch from before. Doofenshmirtz-2 charges at him.)
I've had just about enough of you, you...
(Phineas hits him with the cushion Perry peed on) Ugh, what is on this? (He takes it off and throws it at Phineas, who ducks)
(Perry punches Platyborg and shakes his hand. Platyborg then punches Perry, which causes his fedora to fall off and sends him rocketing into a storage closet full of sports equipment, some of which falls out. Perry comes out in a football helmet and pads, charges and slams into Platyborg, hitting him into a wall. Platyborg punches him in the face and shakes his hand. Perry smirks, raps his knuckles on the football helmet and shrugs.)
(Candace and Stacy watch as the Normbots keep coming)
Candace: I was wrong, Stacy, about everything. I'm not a grown-up. I can't control mysterious forces. I can't even get my mom to see what my brothers are doing! (she smiles) Stacy, that's it! I can't get my mom to see what my brothers are doing! (she runs off)
Stacy: Candace, where are you going?
Candace: I'm gonna bust my brothers to my mom! And I'm gonna fail!

(DEI: Doofenshmirtz is still at the front door, talking to Mrs. Thompson on the intercom)
Doofenshmirtz: No, it's Heinz Doofenshmirtz. You borrowed sugar from me this morning!
Mrs. Thompson: I don't have any sugar. I had to borrow some from my neighbor this morning.
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, that's me. That's...
Mrs. Thompson: Oh, he's a nice man, but I hear he's divorced.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, THAT she remembers.

(Candace runs into the cineplex, which is showing "That Darn Fiancé". She goes into the theatre and sees her mom and dad wearing 3-D glasses, oblivious to the many Normbots flying around; she goes up to them)
Candace: Psst, mom!
Linda: Candace, what are you doing here?
Candace: You've got to come outside and bust the boys!
Linda: I'm not leaving now. The girl is about to forgive the guy for the clichéd misunderstanding... (a Normbot tears through the screen) After she battles these robots.
Lawrence: Whoa, this 3-D is amazing!
(Back in the streets, Ferb charges at another bot. Isabella runs up, manning a baseball launcher.)
Isabella: Ferb, we'll handle things down here! (she fires, hitting a bot) Go help Phineas!
(Ferb leaps off the bull and runs into a hardware store. He grabs two plungers, then runs to the Danville Impound Lot, where the Platypult is. He slides across it, activating the tail as he slides onto it. It launches him into the air and he uses the plungers to stick to the side of the Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc. building, and he starts climbing.)

(On the roof, Phineas picks up some plates from the buffet table and chucks them at 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz, who dodges and uses cushions to block. Phineas then hits him with a bowl filled with pasta. Doofenshmirtz picks up a lamp and tries to hit him with it. He dodges and backs up to the Normbot controller. Doofenshmirtz-2 swings and Phineas leaps away, causing him to hit the panel, making the Normbots shudder and spark. Phineas hides and looks as 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz fiddles with the controller.)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Oh come on, you stupid thing, work! (the Normbots go back to normal and continue)
Phineas: Oh, so that dish must be what's controlling the robots! Maybe I don't need to close the portal if I can just take out that... (he sees the baseball launcher) Oh, yeah!
(He runs to it, but 2nd Dimension Doofnenshmirtz grabs it)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Oh no you don't! Ha ha! Now the baseball is on the other foot! Or however that... that saying goes. I'm not really sure... (sees Phineas backing up) Hey, hey! Where are you going? (he aims at Phineas, and backs him into a wall) You know, all that's going to happen from you guys coming up here is that I'm going to have a brand new Platyborg! And maybe even a Boyborg too, huh? Try saying that five times fast: boyborg, boyborg, boyborg, boyborg, boyborg... eh, I guess its not that hard to say, never mind.
(Platyborg punches at Perry, who dodges. He head-butts Platyborg, who dives at him. He uses his feet to kick him away. Platyborg leaps back in front of him and tries to hit Perry with the spike on the end of his tail. Perry dodges and takes off the pads and helmet. He uses it as a weapon to knock Platyborg into the buffet table, where his spike is impaled on a turkey.)
(Platyborg at first, tries to get up, but the turkey weighs him down. He then manages to get up, but the turkey is still stuck on the end of his tail. He tries to reach it, but can't. Perry smiles, amused, as Platyborg keeps trying to reach it. He sees and punches Perry in the face. He falls to the ground, they grapple. Platyborg tries to hit him, but Perry dodges, and he tickles Platyborg's neck, causing his tail to snap forward, planting the turkey over his head. He stumbles blindly and Perry kicks him, sending him back into a fuse box, which his spike pierces, electrocuting him.)
(He jolts and grabs two corn on the cob. The electricity burns the turkey and causes the corn to pop. Perry puts his hat back on and catches a kernel in his mouth. Doofenshmirtz-2 aims at Phineas.)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): You know something kid, you've been a thorn in my side all day long...
(Perry looks and sees a bat on the ground, he whistles; Phineas looks) But that's about to change...
(Perry throws the bat)
(Slow-Mo) right now...
(He fires, Phineas grabs the bat and hits the ball away. It heads for the robot control dish.)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): (slow-mo) Noooooo!
(It hits, shattering it, Doofenshmirtz-2 cries as the bots shut down and fall out of the sky)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): (regular) Augh! My babies! No, what have you done?
(He runs off as the bots continue to fall. Isabella, Buford, and three of the Fireside Girls watch from under a bus stop.)
Isabella: It's weird that Perry's a secret agent, huh?
Buford: Yeah, but it was obvious in retrospect.
(Baljeet walks up, wearing only the top half of the Beak suit)
Baljeet: Has anyone seen my pants?
Buford: Yeah, they're over there.
(he points to Irving, who is in the legs, holding two crowbars and standing on a pile of dismantled Normbots)
Irving: WOLVERINES!

(Theatre)
Candace: Mom, if you care one iota about me, your family, and your city, you'll come outside with me right now!
Linda: Well, I guess I could use some more popcorn.
Candace: Great! (she pulls her out) Come on, come on, come on!

(Ferb arrives at the top)
Phineas: Ferb, bro! I just hit the best home run ever!
(Ferb gives a thumbs up, just then, the ground shakes and a chamber opens. Out of it rises a huge robot made to look like 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz. The head looks down at them.)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Now, tremble before me! (laughs) No no, I'm down here.
(its arm moves, showing him in a cockpit built into the arm)
See? One last trick up my sleeve. It's me! See, I'm the trick up my...own sleeves. Cause look, I-I'm in the sleeve, get it? (they look) Ugh, pearls before swine.
(he pulls a lever, the bot aims back a punch) Hope you got your 3-D glasses, cause I'm coming at you!
(The arm extends and lets fly with a punch. He laughs and whoops. Phineas, Ferb, and Perry hold each other and brace for impact, when suddenly...)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey!
(The arm stops)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): What? I'm kind of in the middle of something here! (we see the arm is less than an inch away from impact)
Doofenshmirtz: I got a little something just for you...
(He reaches into his lab coat. 2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz raises the arm to look. Doofenshmirtz pulls out the Choo-Choo the toy train.)
Here!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Choo-Choo!
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, it's mine. See, I told you I never lost it. It was in a box in my pantry labeled "VHS Tapes". Go figure. Anyway, you can have it.
(2nd Dimension Doofenshmirtz lowers the arm and leaps out)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): I can't believe it! Choo-Choo, it is you! (he takes it and hugs it close) Oh, heart melting, backstory resolving, evilness diminishing.
Doofenshmirtz: Eh, it's the least I can do.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): You know, I don't even know what I was thinking with the whole "evil robots" thing. Actually, when I look around, I-I'm really embarrassed. Here, let me clean this up.
(he pulls out a remote labeled SELF DESTRUCT) Look, "Self Destruct" button.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, you.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Yeah, here we go.
(He pushes the button, all the Normbots explode and vanish into thin air. In a kid's room, he plays with a toy robot, when it explodes as well.)

(The bots outside the theatre explode. A second later, Candace drags Linda out.)
Candace: Come on, come on. Hurry! (she motions for her to look)
Linda: Do I even need to say there's nothing there anymore?
Candace: Mom, you can say it all you want! (hugs her and does a little dance) There's nothing there! Woo hoo! I did it, I saved the world! (she stops and smiles, pause) You can go back to your movie now.
(Linda stares for a second, then goes back in)
(Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc. rooftop. A portal is opened back to the 2nd dimension.)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Yeah, you know, we're totally cool now, I'm just going to go back to my home and live out the rest of my days with my Choo-Choo. Okay then, ciao!
(he steps through the portal) Ah, home, it's good to be... (the 2nd Dimension Fireside Girls (also known as the Firestorm Girls) march up) Uh-oh.
(2nd Dimension Major Monogram walks up)
Major Monogram (2nd Dimension): Book him, ladies.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): You know, my crimes against humanity had just completely slipped my mind.
(they grab and drag him away)
(Candace runs up to Phineas and Ferb as the 2nd Dimension gang come out of the portal)
Candace: Hey, did you guys just see that? I totally saved Danville!
Candace (2nd Dimension): Good job, soldier.
Candace: So, what will you do now?
Candace (2nd Dimension): Wow, I haven't thought of anything but busting Doofenshmirtz for years. I don't know.
Candace: Well, I know what interests I'd pursue. (she points to 2nd Dimension Jeremy as he comes out of the portal)
Jeremy (2nd Dimension): Hey, here you all are.
Candace (2nd Dimension): I'll take that under consideration. And what about you, Candace?
Candace: You know, after all of this, I'm going to give myself a little more time to be young. It's not such a bad place to be.
Candace (2nd Dimension): You know what, me too. (they hug)
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Hey, I just wanted to say thanks for teaching us all about summer. You know, opening our horizons, and teaching Ferb classical guitar.
(2nd Dimension Ferb strums a few chords)
(Platyborg then rises out of the mass of popcorn and throws off the turkey)
Phineas: Uh-oh.
(They look, he then reverts to pet mode and does a metallic sounding chatter)
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Hey, it's our Perry! (they go over to him) Looks like the evil was fried right out of him.
Phineas: Sorry he's mostly made of metal now.
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Are you kidding? That makes him extra cool! Thanks so much guys. (they head back to the portal)
Phineas: I'm glad we could help.
(Perry and Platyborg look at each other. Perry salutes and Platyborg smiles and salutes back. He enters the portal, it closes up.)
Phineas: Man, this was the greatest day ever. Imagine how much fun we can have together now that we know you're a secret agent!
(Major Monogram and Carl walk up)
Major Monogram: Yes yes, the next fifteen minutes should be a real hoot. Then, of course, Agent P will be sent away forever.
Phineas: What?
Major Monogram: Didn't he give you a pamphlet?
Phineas: We threw it away.
Major Monogram: Does anyone read those things?
Carl: I tried to warn you, sir.
Major Monogram: Kids, I'm sorry, but now that Agent P's cover has been blown, you won't be allowed to see him anymore.
Phineas: That's why you didn't want us to know your secret. (Perry nods) So we'll never see Perry again? There has to be another way!
Major Monogram: Sorry, Phineas. It isn't safe, you know too much.
Phineas: Now I never wished so much that I could un-know something.
Carl: Sir, maybe there is a way. What about Dr. Doofenshmirtz's Amnesia-nator?
Doofenshmirtz: I never built an Amnesia-nator. I think I'd remember building something like that.
Major Monogram: Well, that might work, but you'd all have to agree.
Phineas: So our choice is to: either forget the best day ever, forget the greatest adventure we've ever had, and forget meeting Agent P, or remember today, but never see Perry again?
(Long pause, everyone looks at Perry)
Ferb: Well, we've had a lot of great days, but we only have one Perry.
Phineas: Agreed.
All: Yeah.
(Later, OWCA Headquarters, we see everyone in the lab)
Major Monogram: (from inside) Alright everybody, tall kids in the back. (zooms to the inside of the lab) Just need to do a little more programming here, and we'll be ready to roll.
(Phineas and Ferb walk up to Perry)
Phineas: Hey, buddy. Ferb and I just wanted to say our goodbyes. You know, we thought we'd met the real you when we found out you were Agent P. But the fact is, pet, secret agent, they're both the real you. You are now, and always have been a great pet, and a great friend. We're going to miss you, Agent P. (Perry hugs Ferb, then hugs Phineas) I love you, pal.
(Monogram's eyes water)
Carl: Sir, are you crying?
Major Monogram: No, I'm sweating through my eyes.
Phineas: Okay sir, we're ready. (They walk back. Perry walks up to Major Monogram.)
Major Monogram: Okay Carl, we're all set.
(Pause)
Isabella: Uh, Major Monogram?
Major Monogram: (offscreen) Uh, yes?
Isabella: So, none of us will remember any of today?
Major Monogram: That's right.
(Isabella looks at Phineas and smirks)
Isabella: (firmly) Good. (she grabs him and kisses him right on the lips, Phineas gasps)
Phineas: (surprised) Isabella!
Isabella: Hit it, Carl!
Phineas: Wait, wait, wait...!
(There is a flash of white light, fade to black; later, Perry heads down to his lair. He sits in his chair and plugs a camera into the computer. A box comes up that says 'IMPORT PHOTOS?', he clicks YES. We see various photos being shown, such as Phineas taping a 'REBOOT ME' sign to a Normbot, Ferb making bunny ears behind Phineas and Perry as they ride in the mine car, Ferb holding up the cushion that Perry peed on, and Ferb pretending to stick his head in the Goozim's mouth.)
(Song: Takin' Care of Things)
Oh, yeah!(laugh)
♪Now me and my bro are takin' care of things♪
♪Went from a pair of jokers to a couple of kings♪
♪It goes to show you never know just what a shuffle brings♪
♪Me and my bro are takin' care of things♪
♪That right, we're bros, we're brothers, different father and mother♪
♪But don't you diss or slam or slide us, we look after one another♪
♪Cause we're thicker than thieves and we're cooler than kings♪
♪Oh man, you better believe, We're takin' care of things♪
♪I'll tell you up front that I've got your back♪
♪And I know that you've got mine♪
♪As long as we stick together side by side♪
♪Yo, bro, it's gonna turn out fine♪
♪Yo, bro, it's gonna turn out fine♪
♪Now me and my bro are takin' care of things♪
♪Went from a pair of jokers to a couple of kings♪
♪It goes to show you never know just what a shuffle brings♪
♪Me and my bro are takin' care of things♪
(Perry smiles; and we see he is looking at the last picture, Phineas and Perry hugging with Ferb next to them, and a box comes up that says 'SAVE PHOTOS?', he smiles again and clicks YES.)

End credits
(Song: Kick It Up A Notch)
Phineas: Oh yeah!
♪If you're lookin' for fun, baby, we're a shoo-in♪
♪But we're a little young to be doin' what we're doin', yeah♪
♪We've got heads full of dreams and sneakers full of feet♪
♪The world is our oyster and life is tastin' sweet♪
♪We're takin' off like we're in a supersonic jet♪
♪But if you think we've gone about as♪
Ferb: ♪Kick it up a notch♪
Phineas: ♪Oh, man, you know it's true♪
♪(Kick it up a notch)♪
Ferb: ♪Gonna kick it up a notch♪
Phineas: ♪We're gonna push on through♪
♪(Kick it up a notch)♪
Ferb: ♪Kick it up a notch♪
Phineas: ♪We're not content to go with the flow♪
♪(Kick it up a notch)♪
♪'Cause everybody knows summer rocks♪
♪But now we're ready to roll♪
All right, Slash, let's roll!
[guitar solo]
Ferb: ♪Kick it up a notch♪
Dr. Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪Yeah, crankin' up the evil!♪
Ferb: ♪Kick it up a notch♪
Dr. Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪I'll cause political upheaval!♪
Ferb: ♪Kick it up a notch♪
Dr. Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪Yeah, I'm gonna get medieval on you!♪
Ferb: ♪Kick it up a notch♪
Phineas: ♪Oh, man, you know that's true♪
♪(Kick it up a notch)♪
Ferb: ♪Gonna kick it up a notch♪
Phineas: ♪We're gonna push on through♪
♪(Kick it up a notch)♪
Ferb: ♪Kick it up a notch♪
Phineas: ♪Not gonna go with the flow♪
♪'Cause everybody knows summer rocks♪
♪But now we're ready to roll!♪



(Scene opens up showing two bicycle racers racing.)
Phineas: You were right, Ferb. It is more fun to mount the race track on the ceiling. (At Buford and Baljeet) Hey, guys. Care to join us for an upside-down slot bike race?
Baljeet: No thank you. I am not a big fan of bicycle racing.
Phineas: Ah, come on. Everyone loves a good bike race.
Baljeet: Not me. You see, I come from a long line of bicycle race losers.
(Flashback)
(Song: Rubber Bands, Rubber Balls instrumental)
Baljeet: (Narrating) In 1903, my great-grandfather was leading a bicycle race, but he fell into a tiger pit. Years later, my grandfather skillfully avoided the tiger pit, but sadly not the tiger. Then, my father was confident he had outsmarted the tiger, but he was wrong.
(Flashback ends)
Baljeet: My point is, none of them finished in the top ten.
Phineas: You know, tiger attacks are comparatively rare in Danville since we installed that tiger excluder on city hall.
(As if to prove his point, the city hall briefly appears showing the tiger excluder on its roof)
Phineas: Ferb, I know what Baljeet is gonna do today!

(Downstairs; in the kitchen)
Linda: Hey, Candace. I was just heading out to Margie's baby shower and look what I found on the stoop.
Candace: My new camcorder! Sport edition. For bustin' on the go.
Linda: Yeah, well; gotta run. Margie won't stay pregnant forever. Don't forget to feed Perry.
Candace: Where's Perry?

(In Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P. We've been monitoring Doofenshmirtz's Internet traffic and we think it's... (A pop-up ad blocks him) What in blazes? A pop-up ad? Can you still see me, Agent P? (Another pop-up ad blocks him) What, another? Agent P? Over here! (More pop-up ads block the screen) Oh, this is getting ridiculous! I give 
up! You know the drill. Monogram out.
(Perry salutes, then leaves)

(In the backyard)
Phineas: Here it is. The route of the 1st annual Tour de Ferb bike race. Featuring jumps, obstacles, rickety staircases, and here's where you start the second stretch of the underwater...
Baljeet: Wait; underwater?
Phineas: We tricked the bikes out a little. Just push the button on your handle bars when you encounter any unusual terrain.
Baljeet: What about tiger attacks?
Phineas: Technically, that's not a terrain. Isabella was kind enough to enlist the help of the Fireside Girls to make the course, guide us, and help out along the way.
Buford: More racey, less talky. (Jumps onto his bike) Sweet!
Isabella: Race ya to the front-line!
Phineas: You're on!
Hey, Baljeet. Don't let a little thing like all your male ancestors getting mauled by tigers during a bike race get you down.
Baljeet: Well, it does seem to indicate a pattern.
Phineas: Just remember you have something that they didn't have. Greg LeMond! (Whistles)
Greg LeMond: I'm back here! (At Baljeet) Hiya, Baljeet. I'm Greg LeMond, the first American cyclist to win the Tour de France. Three times, actually.
Baljeet: So, like recently?
Greg LeMond: That's not the point. The point is I see a kid who needs inspiration.
Baljeet: Oh, you mean me, right?
Greg LeMond: That's right, Baljeet. Don't let anything stop you. There's nothing in this world that you can't do.
Baljeet: Actually, I can think of many things I can not do. Flying comes to mind. Also putting my foot behind my head, but it occurs to me that you're speaking hyperbolically. So point taken, Greg LeMond! I'm going to win this race!
Greg LeMond: That's the spirit! (Baljeet bikes off) U-S-A! U-S-A!
Baljeet: (Off screen) I am from India!
(On the street, where the bike race is about to begin)
(Song: Go, Go, Phineas instrumental)
Holly: Ready...set....
Buford: (Laughs) Losers!
Holly: ...Go!
Buford: What the...? No fair! You've got that aerodynamic head!
Baljeet: Indi-a! Indi-a!
(In the backyard)
Candace: (singsong) Oh, Phineas? Ferb? (Notices the route map) Tour de Ferb? (Takes it from the fence) Oh, baby! Ee-ee-ee-ee...
(Song: Bust is in the Bag)
♪ Bust is in the bag ♪
♪ The bust is in the bag ♪
♪ The bust is in the bag ♪
♪ Video b-b-bust ♪

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
(Perry breaks a door down with his scooter, skids to a stop, and then accidentally pushes a button via kickstand)
(Beep)
(Perry gives a surprised look, then glances up just as a bunch of computer cables and monitors, coming from a black tube, falls on top of him)
Doofenshmirtz: (Cackles) Welcome, Perry the Platypus. I knew you would fall for the old kickstand trap. (Scratches an ear) Of course, I didn't know exactly where you've parked, so I... (Camera pans back showing that he had installed more than one button) really got to watch my step around here. But as you see, you're trapped... in a pile of old computer cables.
(Camera pans to a glaring Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: I've started throwing them in a drawer years ago, and I'm... I'm sure there's probably one wire you can pull like a... (Camera pans back to Perry) like a lube-bearing wire that would just make the whole thing unravel. But how you find it? (Camera switches back to him) I'd figured it would be easier to use it as a trap, so I did. See? Recycling.
(Camera once again switches to Perry, who's now trying to escape from the computer cables)

(On the Tour de Ferb bike route)
Buford: Uh, oh! Big round wet thing comin' up!
Phineas: Press your buttons, everybody!
Buford: (Press button on his bike) Awesome!
(Frog croaks)
Baljeet: I can feel my competitive spirit breaking free! (Bike hits a tree stump then he falls into the water)
Phineas: Don't give up, Baljeet!
Baljeet: (Stands up; shaking a fist) Never!
Greg LeMond: (Rising from the water, bike in one hand) Baljeet, you're not quitting, are you?
Baljeet: No, sir, Mr. LeMond. (Retrieves bike from the water then raises it over his head) I came to win!
Greg LeMond: I know things are tough. There's a little voice telling you to quit.
Baljeet: I hear no voice.
Greg LeMond: But you can quit.
Baljeet: But I do not want to quit!
Greg LeMond: Hey; true story. Hunting accident. My brother-in-law thought I was a turkey. (Imitates turkey) Kaboom! But I recovered, and you can too.
Baljeet: Wow; I have no idea how to respond that. (Pauses) I think I will be continuing on with the race now.
Greg LeMond: Dropping out seems like an easy way, but years from now I don't want you to look back and wonder "What if?".
Candace: Out of my way, turkey!
Greg LeMond: Why does everyone think I'm a turkey?

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: So, Perry the Platypus. Let me tell you my latest scheme. The other day, I was browsing the Internet when...
(Flashback #1)
Doofenshmirtz: (Narrating) I came to an online auction for a Super Multi-inator. I wasn't even sure what it did, but you know Zupermuhltienator was my grandmother's maiden name. It was a sign. I had to have it, but then something terrible happened. A pop-up ad kept me from hitting the "Bid now" button. It really hit me where I lived too. You see, I always hated advertising ever since the early '80s when I did a little product modeling to finance my first -Inator.
(Flashback #2)
Photographer: That's it. Hold the wombat a little closer to your face.
(Wombat growls)
Photographer: Closer. A little closer.
(Flashback #2 ends)
Doofenshmirtz: (Narrating) I don't want to talk about it. But then I realized I could use pop-up ads to serve all of my evil ends.
(Flashback #1 ends)
Doofenshmirtz: So I come up with a whole slew of products and services I that could advertise and my Pop-up-inator would (Snaps fingers) put thousands of pop-up ads virtually everywhere! I'll make millions!
(Perry once again tries to release himself from the computer cables)

(Song: Tour de Ferb)
♪ Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da, ♪
♪ Da Da Da Da ♪
♪ Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da ♪
♪ I've got the wind in my hair, ♪
♪ I've got the bugs in my teeth, ♪
♪ My wheels are spinning, ♪
♪ I got the road underneath, ♪
♪ It's a competition, ♪
♪ but a wonderful ride ♪
♪ The road may be limited grade, ♪
♪ but it's a beautiful day, ♪
♪ The sun is shining, ♪
♪ our path is lighting away, ♪
♪ We can make it, ♪
♪ as long as you're by my side ♪
♪ The vista's more inviting, ♪
♪ than it was in the brochure, ♪
♪ and even though we're riding ♪
♪ past a truck filled with manure, ♪
♪ We'll just stick to the curb, ♪
♪ It's the Tour de Ferb! ♪
♪ Da Da Da Da Da ♪
♪ Da Da Da Da Da ♪
♪ Da Da Da Da, Da Da Da Da ♪
♪ Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da Da ♪
Candace: Right on schedule and fully documented.

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
(The Pop-up-inator fires a green beam in two different directions)
Doofenshmirtz: The best part is that pop-up ads would never go away. There's a little button that says "Click here to close", (Camera pans to Perry) but guess what? It just opens another pop-up ad! (Camera switches to him) (Laughs) Pop-up ad. Best idea ever.
(Perry activates a pair of high-tech goggles from his fedora then looks around.)
Female voice: Analyzing pile. .... Locating load-bearing wire.
(The high-tech goggles gets de-activated. Perry then grabs the aforesaid wire, which enables him to finally escape the trap.)
Doofenshmirtz: What? .... Perry the Platypus! How did you get out? .... Aaah! .... Ow! Hey! Not fair! .... Oof! ... Alright, no more Mr. Nice Guy! .... Come back here, you little... (Accidentally presses one of the buttons; wires fall on him; he brushes them off) See? I told you I got to watch my step in here. (Pushes another button; gets trapped by wires; more falls on his head to create a turban; even more completely covers him) I know what you're thinking, but this is neither ironic nor funny. (Pauses) Are you... Are you still there?

(Flynn-Fletcher home; in the master bathroom)
Candace: (in a sarcastic tone) Hello, mother. Have a nice time at the baby shower?
Linda: Well; Margie's got morning sickness, so there was a little incident.
Candace: Ew.
Linda: But now I'm clean, so no harm done. And I can see you're dying to tell me something.
Candace: Uh.... Not really. It's just.... Mom, (Beam from the Pop-up-Inator hits Candace's camcorder) take a look at this.
Phineas: (on screen) Ok --
(The screen gets covered with pop-up ads)
Linda: Your camera gets pop-up ads?
Candace: What?! Nooooo!!! But it doesn't matter. (tosses camcorder in sink; picks up Linda) I know where the last obstacle is. Hee-hee-hee-hee...
Linda: Whoa! Whoa! (gets placed in the bike basket) Candace, I'm not even dressed!
Candace: Sorry Mom, it's an emergency!
Linda: Luckily, (reveals bike helmet under turban) I've picked today to wear my bike helmet into the shower.

(Sunset; on the Tour de Ferb bike route)
Baljeet: Ah! There it is! The finish line, right on the other side of Danville Chasm. I am going to win this!
Buford: Not if I can help it!
Linda: Candace! My towel!
Candace: Come on! Come on! Come on! Come on!
(Linda stops to readjust her towel)
Candace: (With her eyes closed) Get ready to see something really terrifying!
(Another beam hits the ground; a Dr. Wombat billboard rises from it)
Linda: That's better. (notices the billboard) Huh. I guess that is pretty scary. That guy should not be holding a wombat so close to his face.
Candace: But-but-but-but-but-but...but...but...buuuuut...

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshimrtz: (while Perry's pushing the Pop-up-Inator towards the balcony) Perry the Platypus, wire you're doing this to me? Get it? Wire? Because, I mean wire. Ah, come on. Now; I know I'm defeated, but at least I got a good joke out of it. Show me some love. (pauses) Nothing? Really?
(Perry tosses the Pop-Up-Inator off the balcony)
Doofenshmirtz: Just going to leave me hanging here?
(The Pop-up-Inator falls to the ground; CRASH!)

(On the Tour de Ferb bike route)
Buford: Ah, ah! Losers!
Baljeet: "Ah, ah" yourself. I am going to win this race! Oooohh! I am tasting victory! It is sweet as... (Greg LeMond quickly passes him) Greg LeMond? I thought you were supposed to be motivating me.
Greg LeMond: It worked so well, that I even motivated myself. Finish line, here I... (a tiger leaps on top of him) Ahhh!
Ferb: They need to change the battery on the tiger excluder.
Phineas: Boy, I'll say.
(Baljeet crosses the finish line; Fireside Girls cheer)
Baljeet: I did it! I won a bike race! Thanks to Greg LeMond inspiring me. And then, you know, getting attacked by that tiger. By the way, I hope he is okay.
Greg LeMond: Oh, man. I got to call my brother-in-law and tell him that his tiger got out.

End Credits
(Song: Tour de Ferb)
♪ Da Da Da Da ♪
♪ Da Da Da Da Da Da ♪
♪ Da Da Da Da Da ♪
♪ We pass a couple gas stations, ♪
♪ and a defunct flower shop, ♪
♪ And as we're passing by this farm, ♪
♪ the pigs all look up from their slop, ♪
♪ We don't mean to disturb ♪
♪ Yeah, it's just the Tour de Ferb! ♪



(Song: Skiddley Whiffers)
♪ Ahh... ♪
♪ Hey, what's the new game that your friends all wanna play? ♪
♪ Skiddley Whiffers! ♪
♪ Totally over when you hear somebody say... ♪
♪ Skiddley Whiffers! ♪
♪ It's every bit as great as we have advertised ♪
♪ If you don't own a copy, you'll be ostracized at school ♪
♪ Skiddley Whiffers is cool (Skiddley Whiffers is all you need) ♪
♪ Skiddley Whiffers is cool (Skiddley Whiffers is guaranteed) ♪
♪ Skiddley Whiffers is cool (Skiddley Whiffers is all you need) ♪
♪ Skiddley Whiffers is cool ♪
♪ Skiddley Whiffers! ♪
Announcer: Your parents played it, but now you can too!
(Cut to Flynn-Fletcher household, where Candace, Phineas, and Ferb are playing Skiddley Whiffers)
Candace: Skiddley Whiifers is the best game ever! And HA! (Rolls a double 5) That brings me out of the mud pit, into the car wash, through the terrible tower, and uh oh, Roll Again! Yes! Double kings, baby! Excuse me. Here comes the big finish. Bing! Bing! Bing! Victory bell! I've broken the winning streak. (Slaps her own rear end) Oh, that feels good! You wouldn't know about that because YOU lost! I am the Queen of Skiddley Whiffers! Who is the queen? I am the Queen!
Phineas: It sure is nice to see Candace happy.
Candace: I mean, seriously, we've been playing this game for what, six years? And look, I've won 19 out of 24 games this year. The last 12, in a row, it's like Skiddley Whiffers wants me to win. Consequently, you two lose! [hits bell] Over, and over, and over again. Skiddley Whiffers is too easy! I need to move on to a bigger challenge. (leaves)
Phineas: A bigger challenge? Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! Hey, where's Perry?
(Scene shifts to the music room. Perry walks up to a guitar, puts on his fedora and plays his theme song. The stereo tilts revealing a hole, and Perry jumps into it. He lands in his lair, in which a party is being held)
Major Monogram: Happy nine hundredth and ninety ninth lair entrance, Agent P! To commemorate this joyous occasion, we like to present you with this souvenir t-shirt.
(a t-shirt with Carl's face on it appears)
Carl: I made it myself! (gasp) I'm gonna go print up some more! Yay! Hmhm! (leaves)
Major Monogram: Just wear it for the day, it's good for his self-esteem. (reveals he is also wearing the shirt) Uh, Doofenshmirtz has been spotted en route to Danville National Park. So, I guess for you it'll be a walk in the park. Haha, 'cause you're going to the park. Where Doof is.
(long pause)
♪ Doofenshmirtz's minibus camping van! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Alright everyone, we're here. Let's unpack so we can get a head start.
Vanessa: "We"? Shouldn't you be off playing with your little platypus friend?
Doofenshmirtz: What? And -- and leave my little girl all alone in the wilderness? No way!
Vanessa: Dad, I'm not your little girl anymore. Look at me, I'm sixteen years old! Sixteen!
(Doofenshmirtz stares at her, switch to his perspective of her as a little girl)
Young Vanessa: That's practically an adult! But, you still treat me like I'm a little kid!
(switch back to reality)
Vanessa: (sigh) I just need some space, that's all. Ar -- are you even listening to me?!
Doofenshmirtz: But Vanessa, what if there were a blizzard or an earthquake and -- and be with no one to take care of, not even kindly ocelots, like I had.
Vanessa: Dad!?!
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, I - I could be at that campsite right over --
Vanessa: Go home!
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, pumpkin. Stay safe. But what if --
Vanessa: GO!
(Doofenshmirtz boards the minibus and drives away)

(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Phineas: We suppose you're wondering why I called all of you here today.
Buford: Yeah, actually, we were.
Phineas: (closes eyes and extends arm, similar to Candace) Ferb?
(Ferb unveils a mechanical nose, fedora, hairdryer, shoe, truck, and unicorn)
Phineas: Ta-da!
(pause)
Buford: That's not clearing anything up for me.
Isabella: I don't care what it is, the hairdryer is mine.
Candace: (runs out) Alright! Nobody move! You two! You think you can just make giant...thingys for all the world to see? Well, no, sir! I'm gonna put the bust on you, but good. (runs off) Mom! Mom! Mom! Phineas and Ferb are making some giant --
Phineas: (over) So in this giant version of the classic game Skiddley Whiffers...
Candace: (comes back) Wait. Did you say "Skiddley Whiffers"?
Phineas: Giant Skiddley Whiffers, yes.
Candace: Giant Skiddley Whiffers?!? That is so bustable! And yet, so tempting. And yet, so bustable! And yet, so tempting.
Phineas: Wanna play?
Candace: Yes! I'm the sneaker!
Buford: I get dibs on the truck!
Isabella: (in the hair dryer) Boo-ya!
Phineas: I claim the fedora, and Ferb picks the nose!
(rimshot, camera pans to Baljeet sitting angrily on the unicorn)
Baljeet: You know, real unicorns are pink. I am just saying.
Phineas: Our gameboard today will be Danville itself, where rich architectural heritage and natural wonders will provide the thrills. And the first player back home wins. And we don't even have to do any work; just roll a number on this electronic die and the game pieces will automatically move that many spaces across Danville.
Candace: Yeah, yeah, let's get this party started! Lob it over! (she catches the die, "6" appears on it) Six! So long, losers. (her sneaker moves) One, two...
Baljeet: When do I get to go? (the die hits his head) Oh! (he catches it, it says "1") It is going to be a long day.
(In the forest...)
(Song: Poison Sumac)
Johnny: ♪ Nature is our mother! Yeah, the trees are great! ♪
(Doofenshmirtz walks by, dressed as some sort of hippie tour guide)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, groovy dudes and dudettes. How's it hangin'? Wanna try my seven-layer bars? Man?
Johnny: Uh...
Vanessa: Uh, hey there, strange man I've never met. What brings you to our campsite? And how soon can you leave?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, I was just passin' by, you know, communing with nature and all, like, you know us, us hippies do it, a-and I thought, you dudes might wanna few groovy pointers from an old pro.
Vanessa: Actually, we're doing just fine.
(Doofenshmirtz dumps a pail of water over the fire, extinguishing it)
All but Vanessa: Hey!/Man!
Doofenshmirtz: You know, fire is the leading cause of fire. Oh, woah. Is that a Puttmaster 3000? (runs up to Lacie's tent) I love these babies, they're -- they're so far out. They almost never collapse and...suffocate you while you sleep. But you know, (pulls out a book) Tri-State Almanac says, they should be at least twenty feet from running water, (measures the distance of Lacie's tent and the water) and yours is an inch too close, maaaan.
Lacie: Seriously?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, and-and you need to tie up your food or you're gonna attract bears, (puts all the food in a bag and throws it on a rope onto a tree branch, making the picnic table hang) which would make it extremely difficult to, hang loose and, be groovy. I've got lots of other righteous camping tips, but first, I need to get some life vests out of my van.
Johnny: Woah, that guy was totally freakstyle.
Vanessa: You have no idea.
(Downtown, Phineas and the gang are playing the game, a Quirky Worky Song version of the Skiddely Whiffers theme plays)
Phineas: Yeah! (catches die, it says "5") My third favorite number!
(He rides up a clock tower, pops out of the clock face and bounces across the power lines, he tosses the die to Candace)
Candace: (gasps, catches die, it says "21") Seven trade, baby! Feel the breeze! (bounces past Baljeet on his unicorn, chained to a cannon ball)
Baljeet: Only because I ruled leg irons!
Candace: Spoken like a true lose-ah! (tosses die to Ferb) Next suck-ah!
(Ferb catches the die, it shows a construction helmet. Ferb puts on the said helmet and bounces on a rising girder whilst tossing the die to Isabella. She catches it, it says "SHARE A TURN". She presses a button on her hair dryer, causing balloons to appear and fly her piece over to Phineas on a bridge)
Isabella: Hey, Phineas. What'cha doin'?
Buford: (wearing a monocle and beard) Hey guys, how much longer do I wear the beard?
Phineas: Until you roll a "shave".
Buford: Awesome!
Phineas: But, what's with the monocle?
Buford: It's an affectation, leave it alone.
(Back in the forest, Doofenshmirtz goes to the van and opens the trunk)
Doofenshmirtz: Let's see, bandages, bug spray, shoulder pads, (Perry arrives via helicopter) and -- oh, hey man, nice threads. Sorry, no scheme today, I'm just secretly overprotecting my daughter while she's camping with some friends. It's dangerous out here, Perry the Platypus, and I should know. (He begins a flashback) You see, back in Gimmelshtump in my youth... WHen I was camping, I had an incident with a swarm of bees. I only got one sting, but it did a lot of damage. (Doofenshmirtz is seen falling off a cliff, through thorn bushes, and a fire hydrant field) I still have a hydrant stuck in my leg, see? I'd have it removed, but the doctors say it's too close to an artery to operate. (Perry stares at Doofenshmirtz) That kind of thing happens all the time in the woods! Alright, maybe I'm over reacting. Actually, it;s really just a beautiful pastural setting. There's probably nothing to--
(Candace smashed Doofenshmirtz van as she continues her turn)
Candace: Whoo-Hoo! Sorry dude!
Doofenshmirtz: Huh? You see? You see how dangerous it is out here? You've got to help me over protect my daughter. Please? Please? Please? Oh great! I know just what you can do!
Johnny: ♪ Poison sumac! Oi! Oi! Oi! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Hey brothers and sisters, I'm back with this industrial size first aid kit, and this state of the art security system. Not to mention-- (and grabs a stick) Too sharp! (He dulls it down, then returns it) Righteous. (shoos birds away from Lacie) Quarantine! (puts helmets on Johnny and Vanessa) Acorn helmets. Better safe than sorry!
Johnny: Uh, he's a little excitable, isn't he?
Vanessa: Yes. Yes, he is.
Doofenshmirtz: You have to leave! It's not safe here for little kids, I mean for practically adults. Flee! Back to the city, away from danger!
Vanessa: Like what?
Doofenshmirtz: Like that!
(Perry comes out of the bushes dressed in a bear suit)
Doofenshmirtz: See?
Vanessa: All right, that's enough! Really Perry? Really?! I expect more from you. And you, Dad!
Doofenshmirtz: But how did you...
Vanessa: Oh please, you come out here jumping around with your costume, and your lame book, and it's... it's just humiliating, Dad. I'm not a little girl anymore.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, you're my little girl
Vanessa: I know, I know, but all I want to do is have a good time with my friends, and you just keep popping up. It's like you don't trust me.
Doofenshmirtz: (He sighs) You're right. I'm sorry I got in your way. I know you can handle yourself, Vanessa. (He walks away sadly with Perry) C'mon Perry the Platypus. Maybe there's still time for a scheme today. I won't even trap you. You can just start beating me up right away.
Johnny: Wait! I thought your dad was a pharmacist.
Doofenshmirtz: (sighs) She's right, Perry the Platypus, I've been smothering her. You know, it's just so hard to let go, as a parent. But I'm going to turn over new leaf though, I can tell you that. No more worrying, no more disguises, (takes off hippie costume) no more rules! (tosses Tri-State Almanac over shoulder)
(The Tri-State Almanac hits a beehive, causing it to fall and release the bees)
(Scene cuts to everyone outside the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Phineas: We're almost at the finish! Well, most of us.
(Widen to reveal Candace in the dust)
Buford: Ha ha! She'll never win now!
Candace: They're right, I could lose. But I can't give up now! I'm the queen of Skiddley Whiffers. And I'm not gonna let anything break my streak. NOW TOSS ME THAT DICE!
Baljeet: The singular is "die"! (tosses die)
Buford: Wow, that was uncalled for.
(Candace cringes in fear as she sees the die fly through the air. She closes her eyes and extends her right arm out and catches the die. It shows two crowns; she looks over at it and smiles)
Phineas: Wow, twice in one day!
Ferb: Skiddley Whiffers is a cruel mistress; cold and unforgiving.
(Song: Skiddley Whiffers (instrumental))
Candace: (jumps to the front) Woo-hoo! Take that, losers!
(Back in the forest...)
Doofenshmirtz: (sighs) You know, I tried to be a good parent, but sometimes it's -- (Vanessa screams in the distance) VANESSA!
(Vanessa and the goth back away from the bees)
Vanessa: Anybody else allergic to bees?
Lacie: Me.
Unnamed goth boy: I am.
Johnny: All of us? What are the odds?
(Doofenshmirtz gets in front of them)
Doofenshmirtz: YOU LEAVE MY BABY GIRL ALONE!
Vanessa: Dad?! What are you doing here? It's dangerous!
Dr. Doofenshmirtz: (sarcastically) Really? I hadn't noticed! (to the bees) Alright, bees. You like honey, don't ya? (pours honey from the hive all over him) Come and get it! Come on! (runs off)
Vanessa: Dad!
Doofenshmirtz: Excuse me, Perry the Platypus! (jumps into the lake)
Johnny: Wow. Your dad is totally psychotic.
Vanessa: Yes. Yes, he is.
(Scene shifts to the backyard)
(Song: Skiddley Whiffers (instrumental))
Candace: (rings the victory bell) Woo! Thirteen wins in a row! Yeah, baby! (takes victory bell off its string and shakes it) Ding, ding, ding! A victory bell!
(the rest of the gang arrives)
Phineas: Nice game, Candace!
Candace: Yeah, for me! (throws victory bell upwards) Woo! (kicks it, picks up die) I totally creamed you guys in that game. And now, I'm gonna bust you for it.
(Candace runs into the kitchen, die in hands and eyes closed)
Candace: Mom, Mom, Mom! Hey, look what Phineas and Ferb built!
Linda: You're right, Candace. Call the authorities, it's a cube!
Candace: (takes her arm) No time for sarcasm, move! (drags her)
Linda: Candace, watch where you're going!
Candace: (trips on victory bell) WHOOAAAA -- OH!
(the die bounces twice, finally landing in the sneaker. It says "ALL MOVE")
(Song: Skiddley Whiffers)
Electronic voice: All players advance.
(the following lyrics have dialogue over them)
♪ Skiddley Whiffers is cool (Skiddley Whiffers is guaranteed) ♪
♪ Skiddley Whiffers is cool (Skiddley Whiffers is all you need) ♪
♪ Skiddley Whiffers is cool ♪
Phineas: Skiddley Whiffers, the game that keeps on playing.
(all the pieces bounce out of the yard)
♪ Skiddley Whiffers! ♪
(They disappear just as Candace brings Linda out)
Candace: (with her eyes closed) Look!
Linda: (flatly) And I'm supposed to see...?
Candace: But, but, but, but...
Linda: So boys, do anything special today?
Phineas: We played Skiddley Whiffers, and Candace played with us.
Linda: Oh, how sweet. (to Candace) Candace, did you have fun with your brothers today?
(long pause)
Candace: Yes. Yes, I did.
(Scene shifts to the forest late that night, Doofenshmirtz is roasting marshmallows with Vanessa; he is covered in bee stings)
Doofenshmirtz: Thanks for pulling me out of the water, Perry the Platypus. But...this shirt's a little snug, are you sure you don't anything bigger? (pause) Nothing? Hm? (another pause) Be careful with those marshmallows though, seriously. (to Vanessa) D-do you know how many s'more related accidents happen each year in this country alone? Do you? (the pieces jump on the mountains in the distance while the Quirky Worky Song version of the Skiddely Whiffers theme is heard) Uh, I -- don't, but admit it's a lot.
Vanessa: (somewhat unthrilled) Dad...

End Credits
(standalone broadcasts and pairing with Phineas and Ferb and the Temple of Juatchadoon only)
(Song: Perry the Platypus)
♪ He's a semi-aquatic, egg-laying mammal of action! ♪
♪ (Dooby dooby doo-bah) (X2) ♪
♪ He's a furry little flatfoot, who'll never flinch from a fray-ay-ay! ♪
♪ He's got more than just mad skill, ♪
♪ (Wah-ah-ah) ♪
♪ He's got a beaver's tail and a bill! ♪
♪ (ah-ah) And the women swoon whenever they hear him say! ♪
(Perry chatters, women faint)
♪ He's Perry! Perry the Platypus! ♪



Part I
(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher House.)
Phineas: So, Ferb your cousins from England are here visiting.
Ferb: (Nods)
Phineas: No, I mean your cousins from England are here visiting.
Lawrence: Look, boys; it's your cousins visiting from England! They're here to see the exhibition football match between Danville and their beloved Snifferton Nostrils.
Adrian, Lucy, Eliza, Beckham, Beckham, Beckham, Pele, Pele: Ooh! Nose goal!
Lawrence: So, the Nostrils are here in the States?
Adrian: Yes, they've already landed and they're probably on the team bus even as we speak!
(Song: "Nostrils on the Bus")
Jingle Singers: ♪ Nostrils on the bus! ♪
Lawrence: Ha! Fabulous! Anyway, Phineas, this is Uncle Adrian, Ady for short, Aunt Lucy...
Lucy: Hello!
Lawrence: ...and their kids, Beckham, Beckham, Pele, Beckham, Pele, and Eliza. Well, her middle name is Beckham.
Phineas: Hi, guys!
Adrian: (Hugs Ferb and tousles his hair) Good heavens, Ferb! What a fine young man you've grown into. (Chuckles) Good to know you, Phineas! I've hear about you all the time.
Lawrence: Oh! So you have reading my newsletter?
Adrian: Oh, heavens no. I read Ferb's blog.
Lawrence: Well, at least you've learned to read.
Adrian: Ouch!
Lawrence: Why don't we go inside and continue our good natured sibling rivalry there.
Adrian: Yes, that way you won't be humiliated in front of the children.
Linda: Oh, sibling rivalry is so attractive.
Lucy: Ady has such a healthy competitive spirit.
Linda: Eliza, honey, why don't you come along. Candace is up in her room.
(Scene switches to the backyard)
Beckham (blond): So cousin Ferb, you've lived in America longer than you lived in England.
Beckham (half-moon glasses): You haven't gone Yank on us, have you?
Phineas: Oh, don't worry, guys. Ferb is as British as ever!
Isabella: Hi guys. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Oh, hi, Isabella.
Baljeet: Hello, everyone. I was just cleaning my room and I thought I would return some of the things Ferb lent me. Your cowboy hat, your baseball mitt, your banjo CDs, your American flag unitard, oh, and here is your bald eagle. (Gives all the things in order and when Baljeet says bald eagle, it flies away) Oh, and Phineas, here is your sack.
Phineas: Awesome! Come to papa! (receives the sack)
Beckham (blond): Oh, yes. Very British.
Buford: What's going on?
Phineas: Oh, it's silly. Ferb's cousins think Ferb has lost his Britishness.
Buford: Ferb's British?
Beckham (blond): Apparently not. I bet you don't even play football anymore.
(Scene zooms to the football Beckham is holding, playing horrible music)
Buford: You dweebs, that's a soccer ball. This is a football!
(Scene zooms to the other football Buford is holding, playing the music again)
Phineas: Actually, there's no one who loves soccer more than my brother Ferb! Ferb got all of us into playing, and we've gotten pretty good if I do say so myself. But Ferb, he's the real master.
Isabella: Yeah, I once saw Ferb playing an entire game of soccer using a pumpkin! And he didn't even break it! To this day, his motivation for doing so remains shrouded in mystery.
Beckham (blond): Well, if you are all such crackin' footballers, then we challenge you and your friends to a football match.
(While saying this, he passes the ball to his brothers and the brown-haired Pele kicks the ball to Ferb, and the scene zooms to Ferb's eyes playing the same terrible music.)
Beckham (blond): So what do you say? Playground rules?
Phineas: How about Football X-7 rules?
(Scene again plays the same music zooming, and the two brothers' heads go to the scene. The cousins gasp.)
Beckham (blond): Football X-7? That's only theoretical!
Phineas: Only for another couple of hours, because I know what we're gonna do today. Hey, maybe Perry wants to be on our team.
(Music plays again while it zooms in on the patch of grass the Perry was on.)
Beckham (blond): (Walks up to the patch of grass that Perry was on) Who's Perry?

(Scene switches to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: (Coughs) I apologize, Agent P. I'm a little under the weather today. First, I was convinced that Carl got me sick, you know, that knee-jerk blame Carl thing but then, then we received this, this morning.
Doofenshmirtz: (On speaker) (Coughs) Uh...hello, Major Monogram, this is Heinz, it's 7:45 on Tuesday, I'm really sick. So, I won't be doing evil today. Anyway... (Coughs)
Major Monogram: Can you believe this? He had the nerve to call in SICK? I'm here, Carl's here. Don't you think I'd rather be at home, watching Ducky Momo? Agent P, you've got to get in there and, (Coughs) I don't know, get him better. Stop him from stopping the things from which, (Snorts) you have to stop him...for...
(Carl faints)

(Scene switches to Candace's room)
(Song: "Not as Much")
Jeremy: ♪ And that as much as you thought you needed me too ♪
Eliza: Brilliant!
Jeremy: Thanks. Most of my favorite bands are British. I guess I'm kind of an Anglophile.
Candace: Anglophile? I thought your family is from Wisconsin. I mean, just....
Eliza: Candace, it means that he likes songs that are British.
Candace: Oh. I knew that.
Jeremy: Oh, man, I gotta get home and help my mom. I'll be back in a couple of hours.
Eliza: Splendid!
Candace: Coolness!
Jeremy: Nice to meet you, Eliza.
Eliza: And you as well, Jeremy.
Jeremy: Oh, by the way, cool accent.
Candace: Cool accent? Cool accent? He's never complimented me on my accent!
Eliza: Now, to be fair...
Candace: I'm not all Britishy and sophisticated!
Eliza: Oh, Candace, don't be silly, it's obvious Jeremy likes you just the way you are.
Candace: DON'T TALK CRAZY! You gotta teach me how to be all Anglowishy and ladylike and proper!
Eliza: But Cand...
Candace: Obviously my relationship with Jeremy depends on it! So you'll help me?
Eliza: Yeah, alright.

(Scene switches to the living room and kitchen.)
(Adrian and Lawrence holds their breath. Lawrence loses.)
Adrian: Hah! I've given you a sound thrashing I have!
Lawrence: Yes, yes, you always did have more wind than I.
Lucy: That's my Adrian. So talented.
Linda: I don't know if I would be bragging about holding my breath for 13 seconds. (Chuckles)
Lucy: Well, at least Lawrence is always so gracious in defeat. Hors-d'oeuvres, anyone?
Adrian: I'll bet I can make myself sick eating prawny puffs before you can.
Lawrence: Carnival ride sick or emergency room sick?

(Documentary video appears...)
Speaker: (Intro theme playing...) Sweaty Men Playing Games Network presents Football X-7. Theoretical speculative conjecture or not that what we just said, with the conjecture thing? Football. Sometimes called soccer, footy, association football or the beautiful game. But, in 1952 a British theoretical physicist, and football enthusiast Professor Ross Eforp, hoped to heighten the football experience by creating the most thrilling and challenging version of soccer imaginable, which still allowed the players to survive. He called it Football X-7. He proposed building an immense gyroscopic, gravity-low stadium, creating an omnidirectional pitch allowing teams to play in 3 dimensions. After several attempts to build a Football X-7 stadium ended in disaster, most scientists, engineers and defensive mid-fielders agreed that Professor Ross Eforp's ultimate football game could never become a reality. The final blow came when it was discovered that Professor Ross Eforp's name is the same spelled forwards as it was backwards, and in the highly-charged anti-palindrome atmosphere in the mid-1950s Professor Ross Eforp was forced into hiding. As for Football X-7, is it possible perhaps one day someone some young dreamer with remarkable building and creative skills might just make Professor Ross Eforp's dream come true? No, not a chance, don't be ridiculous it's impossible.
(Laptop turns off)
Phineas: Impossible?! The only thing's that is impossible is impossibility. Now Ferb and I believe we figured out where Professor Eforp went wrong.
Beckham (blond): Oi. Are you actually saying you're gonna build that here?
Phineas: Yes. We are gonna do what no one has ever done before. Play the biggest, baddest, onliest game of Football X-7 ever! Now, who's with me?
Isabella: (as she, Buford, and Baljeet raise their hands) We are, of course.
Beckham (blond): Completely mad, the lot of them.
Phineas: Let's get started. Come on Ferb. We need to—Ferb? Ferb? Ferb?
(Ferb daydreams with a background of emus knowing his emu curse)

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (Coughs) Perry the Platypus? What are you doing here? Did you get my mess—Is that chicken soup? (Perry gives him a look) What?
(Perry points at the If-a-Tree-Fell-In-The-Forest-Inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, that? Yeah I was planing to do evil today but look at me. I just don't think it's gonna happen.
(Doofenshmirtz holds up the thermometer that was in his mouth)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh man, 103? Seriously, if I was a hot tub people would be getting out of me. They'd be all like "Wow, Heinz Doofenshmirtz is way too hot. We should get out of him." Anyway, since you're here, I taped my rehearsal. I'll just play it for you. It'll be just as good. I shot this yesterday when I was feeling considerably better then.
Doofenshmirtz on TV: Lalalalala. Topeka, Kansas. Topeka, Kansas. Okay. So, Perry the Platypus, I bet you're wondering why I trapped you in this soundproof capsule? Wait, (Ugh) If it's soundproof he won't be able to hear me... Oh.   
(Doofenshmirtz pushes a button turning it into static. The screen goes back in a split second.) For generations philosophers have asked, "If a tree falls in the forest, and no one is around to hear it, does it make a sound?" The answer, by the way obviously is "Of course it does." I mean, duh! Right? Philosophers. Get a job thinky-boy! Now see, the question they should be asking is, "What sound does the falling tree make?" Behold! The If-a-Tree-Fell-In-The-Forest-Inator! Dun dun dun! One blast from this puppy will knock over a tree or anything else for that matter-and the sound it will make is: (Whisper) Doofenshmirtz... (Normal) I, will have eternal fame as the answer to that one philosophical question! I'm also working on a Sound-of-One-Hand-Clapping-Inator. Doo-Fen-Shmirtz. I'll CORNER the markets! And speaking of markets, I'm out of vitamins. I should really get some before they close... Eh. So I skipped my Vitamin C for a day. What's the worst thing that could happen?
Doofenshmirtz: Not one word, Perry the Platypus. You have to at least give me a chance to do my thing, okay? Good. Okay, here we go. Where is it? Here we go. (Deploys the trap on the other side of the room, nowhere near Perry) There. I trapped you.
(Perry just stares at him)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, so what's next? I...activate my -inator, okay. Give me a head start here. (Groaning, stands up and cracks his back.) I'll get there, don't worry!
(Perry rolls his eyes)

(Scene switches to Candace's room)
(Candace is watching Phineas and Ferb build the stadium)
Candace: Oh, man. That thing is gonna be huge! I'm gonna go get my mom!
Eliza: Erm, Candace, you do know that tattling is not very ladylike.
Candace: It's not?
Eliza: Afraid not, no. I've five little brothers myself, so you can imagine the discipline it takes.
Candace: No busting?!
Eliza: You asked me to teach you how to be proper and sophisticated for Jeremy.
Candace: But- but...(Groans, then takes a deep breath.) Right. I can do this.
Eliza: Good girl. The first lesson for a lady-in-training is about posture. Honestly, I'm not quite sure why this is, but from birth, all proper ladies are warned that they must stand and sit completely vertically straight, and even the tiniest bend or deviation on one side will lead directly to a life of horror and destitution.
Candace: (Shrugging.) Makes sense.
(Song: "Lady Song")
Eliza: ♪ It's frightfully terribly hard to be a lady ♪
♪ There's so many Ps and Qs you have to mind ♪
♪ But the rewards I guarantee are rich and varied ♪
♪ And worth all of the effort, you will find ♪
♪ Your posture must be perfect ♪
♪ And your diction crisp and clear ♪
♪ Your speaking voice mellifluous and pleasing to the ear ♪
♪ Your legs are crossed when seated ♪
♪ Your toes are pointed so ♪
♪ Your pinkies raised while drinking ♪
♪ But that's not all you need to know ♪
(Tune changes to a heavier punk sound)
♪ You mustn't curse or spit or tattle, never gossip ♪
♪ A lady never scratches, sweats, or burps ♪
♪ She knows which knife and fork and spoon to use and when ♪
♪ And if soup is served it's impolite to slurp ♪
♪ It's always "please and thank you, sir or madam" ♪
♪ Never brash or loud or putting on a show ♪
♪ A lady is demure, reserved and proper ♪
♪ And that is really all you need to know! ♪
Candace: I don't get it. What, do polite people not have bookshelves in your country?

(Scene switches to the backyard)
Phineas: Lady and gentlemen, I give you the Football X-7 stadium!
Beckham (half-moon glasses): Whoa! That's brilliant! I'm totally gobsmacked!
Phineas: Yeah, I guess I could smack a little gob myself.
Beckham (blond): Now it all comes down to the game. Are you ready?
Phineas: Well, yeah! How about you, Ferb?
(The camera pans over to the empty patch of grass where Ferb was standing, zooming in on it with the same horrible music)
Phineas: Oh no! I was afraid something like this would happen.
Isabella: What will we do?
Phineas: (At the camera) We'll be right back.

Part II
(Scene opens up showing a football field at dawn.)
Phineas: (voiceover) Ferb's soccer problem started a few months ago, right before summer began. Um, actually, that's a little early in the day. 
(The screen fast-forwards to early afternoon, where the kids are walking onto the field)
Phineas: (voiceover) Okay, closer. A little later than that.
(The screen fast-forwards again, this time to nighttime)
Phineas: (voiceover) Whoa, what is that, night? Back it up to about the middle of the third quarter...
(The screen rewinds to the middle of the game)
Phineas: (voiceover) Like there! Right there. Thank you. So anyway...
(Song: "Football X-7" (instrumental)
Phineas: (voiceover) We were having a great game. Ferb, as always, was in top form. Little did I know it would be Ferb's last game. Late in the second period, the other team had kicked the ball out-of-bounds, and Ferb grabbed it. Suddenly, from out of nowhere, a herd of emu ran onto the field and carried off our assistant coach. Ferb simply put the ball down and walked off the field. That was it. Ferb hasn't played football since.
Beckham (half-moon glasses): I don't blame him, poor fellow. It's the Emu Curse.
Phineas: The Emu Curse?
Beckham (half-moon glasses): It goes like this: if you're holding the ball, and a herd of emus carries off your assistant coach, then you're cursed to never be on a winning team again.
Phineas: Wow. British curses are really specific.
Isabella: Well, no wonder he disappeared.
Phineas: We're gonna have to break that curse!
Beckham (blond): Good luck, mate.
Beckham (half-moon glasses): To break the Emu Curse, a boy wearing a Sunday bonnet must sing the note Eb above high C in front of the cursed one.
Phineas: Eb above high C? Whoa! Wait a second, who's got a piccolo? Buford?
Buford: Argh! One day somebody's gonna ask me for some obscure musical instrument, and it ain't gonna be there. What's gonna happen then? (Pulls out the piccolo and plays the Eb above high C)

(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: What is that ringing so- is that Eb above high C? Oh, for crying out loud, Perry the Platypus, really? Really? You're thwarting the ill...? (Begins hacking up a lung)

(Scene switches to the inside of the Football X-7 stadium)
Phineas: Here it is! The Football X-7 stadium! Complete with omnidirectional hover goals and observation deck/high tea room!
Beckham (blond): Wow...
Phineas: It's designed so that the ground hugs your feet, making it possible to literally walk on walls! So the goals can be scored from any angle.
Beckham (blond): Brilliant, let's play.
Phineas: I wish we could.
Isabella: Yeah. We don't have a team without Ferb.
Buford: Yeah. He was our quarterback.
Baljeet: You still do not know what game we are playing, do you?
Beckham (blond): You do realize without a full team you forfeit the match?
Phineas: Don't worry, you guys. If I know my brother, he'll come through for us!
(A twinkling chord plays, and the camera pans over to a Ferb-shaped figure in the doorway, surrounded by fog)
Phineas: Ferb?
(It is revealed to be Irving with a bucket over his head.)
Irving: Hi, guys! I brought some dry ice!
Baljeet: Aww.
Irving: Oh, and I brought Ferb, too.
Phineas, Isabella, Buford, and Baljeet: Ferb!!
Phineas: Ferb, you came to play!
Ferb: As long as my team will have me, curse and all.
Phineas: Of course we will! It's not about winning, it's about the joy of the game!
Beckham (blond): Actually, it's about winning.
(Irving blows the whistle to start the game)
(Song: "Football X-7")
♪ Oh yeah! ♪
♪ In 1959 ♪
♪ Soccer was sublime ♪
♪ And one man was looking for something more nifty ♪
♪ But Eforp's dream was way too extreme ♪
♪ For the palindrome-fearing people of the 50s ♪
♪ A number and a letter it don't get any better than ♪
♪ Football X-7 (X2) ♪
♪ Call it soccer or football or the beautiful game ♪
♪ But it just got a brand new name ♪
♪ Yeah, Football X-7 ♪
♪ Football X-7 (X4) ♪
♪ Yeah! ♪
(Scene switches to the door to the stadium)
(Candace appears wearing a pink gown and ridiculously poofy hat)
Candace: (In a phony British accent) Why, Jeremy! How delightful it is to see you again!
Jeremy: Hey, Candace...you look...great?
Candace: Do come in!
Jeremy: Okay.
Candace: So, what do you think? High tea and-
Jeremy: Whoa! Cool! What're they doin'?
Candace: Some sort of silly game. As a lady, I'm not terribly interested in such foolishness. I'm much more interested in curtsying and other dainty pursuits.
Eliza: Hi, Jeremy! Doesn't Candace look lovely?
Jeremy: Yeah. I can't say I've seen better posture.
Candace: Would you care to stack books on my head?
Jeremy: No, I'm cool.
Eliza: Well, why don't you two sit and chat while I fetch tea?
Candace: That sounds divine! Shall we?
Jeremy: Of...course!
Candace: Have you noticed my extended pinkies?
Jeremy: I was just about to comment on them. They're really up there.
Candace: Why, thank you.
Jeremy: You know, it's a little unusual...here we are sitting in the very heart of a giant soccer stadium your brothers built in your yard...and you haven't once shown any desire to bust them.
Candace: Oh, dear boy, no, no. A lady never tattles. (Giggles uncertainly)
(Jeremy makes a thoughtful face)

(Scene switches to the living room)
(Lawrence and Adrian are both wearing copious amounts of shirts; apparently, Adrian is wearing more)
Lawrence: Just... one... more... oh, I can't do it! Oh, darn it.
Adrian: Ha! I'm wearing more shirts than you.
Linda: Oh, brother.
Lucy: It's hard not to root for him, isn't it?
Linda: I think I'll manage. Excuse me for a second.
Lawrence: Oh, hello, dear.
Linda: Uh, Lawrence, what's going on here? I've seen you put on more shirts than that.
Lawrence: Well, I'll let you in on a little secret: I let him win all these contests; look how happy it makes him!
(Shot of Adrian and Lucy dancing and singing)
Linda: Yeah, I can see that. But, you know what, honey, as humble and gracious as you are- and I love that about you- next time, destroy him.
Lawrence: Pardon?
Linda: Smear the punk. Annihilate him. Make him cry.
(They look over at Adrian and Lucy)
Lucy: You're awesome, he's not, you're awesome, he's not...
Lawrence: (Under his breath) Got it. (At Adrian) Oh, hey, Ady, how about one last little event? Keepy-Uppy?
Adrian: Keepy-Uppy? Are you mad? I have never lost a game of Keepy-Uppy in my life.
Lawrence: Well, you won't mind humoring me then.

(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
(Doofenshmirtz is still attempting to activate the -inator)
Doofenshmirtz: (Coughing) I'm going to... (Continues coughing) activate my... (Loses his balance, grabs onto the -inator, continues coughing) you know the rest.
(-Inator activates and fires at Perry. He rolls out of the way, instead hitting a tall machine behind him)
Machine: (Whisper) Doofenshmirtz...
Doofenshmirtz: Whoa...check it out, Perry the Platypus, I...I'm totally beating you inadvertently. (Pushes button, -inator starts to spin) And when I say inadvertently, I... I mean completely vertently...ha ha...you know, fighting you makes me feel a little better. It's a... it's a good feeling. (Climbs onto spinning -inator) Like a comfy old sweater or something...like an old friend. Yes... (-inator fires) like a comfy old big woolen friend named Joy C. Terrific from the hinterlands... I'm literally just blathering now.
(Perry runs into the men's restroom)

(Scene switches to the Nostrils team bus)
♪ Nostrils on the Bus! ♪
(A stray beam from the -inator hits a tree, blocking the road)
Tree: (Whisper) Doofenshmirtz...
Nostril #3: Did that tree just say "Doofenshmirtz"?
Nostril #8: I think we've been on this bus too long!
Bus Driver: Hang on, lads, we're taking a detour.
(The Nostrils fans are waiting for them in the road.)
Nostrils Fans: Nostrils! Nostrils! Nostrils! Nostrils!
Nostrils Fan #1: Hey, wait, where're they goin'?
Nostrils Fan #2: I made them a crumpet!
Nostrils Fan #3: Oh, is that what that is.
Nostrils Fan #1: Follow 'em!

(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
(More beams are randomly shooting out of the -inator.)
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah...that really feels good...
(Doofenshmirtz slips off the -inator, falling down the stairs attached to it, and lands on the floor near the -inator.)
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, I'll have more cake...(falls asleep)
(Perry is holding an enormous bathroom mirror, which he aims at the -inator. It backfires on itself, breaking apart in the process.)
-Inator: (whisper) ...ztrimhsnefooD
(Perry removes his fedora, takes out a blanket)
Doofenshmirtz: (mumbles) ...so evil...
(Perry covers Doofenshmirtz with it, leaving him to sleep on the floor.)

(Scene switches to the front yard, where Adrian and Lawrence are playing Keepy-Uppy.)
Adrian: Come on, Lawrence, give it up. I've won at everything since we were kids!
Lawrence: Oh yeah? Watch this!
Linda: Lawrence, stop showing off, or you're gonna blow it.
Lawrence: Don't worry, darling, I've got the...(kicks the` ball far too high) oh, whoops.
Adrian: Well, Lawrence, it looks like you've lost again.
Lawrence: Yes, it does look that way, doesn't it? (the ball comes back down, he continues playing Keepy-Uppy) However, looks can be deceiving.

(Scene switches to the Nostrils team bus)
♪Nostrils on the Bus!♪
Nostril #8: Is it my imagination, or is that a Football X-7 stadium?
Nostril #3: It's your imagination. That's just a mailbox. But there is one on this side of the bus.
(The Nostrils stare at it as they pass by.)

(Scene switches to inside the stadium...)
Jeremy: Candace...I can't help but notice your...accent there.
Candace: Why, yes. Do you like it? I thought an Anglophile such as yourself might appreciate the soothing lilt of the Queen's English.
Jeremy: An Anglophile such as myself? (he realizes what she is referring to) Oh, ha! I get it. Well...yes. I could listen to you speak like that all day.
Candace: Really?
Jeremy: I like it so much better than how you were...before.
Candace: You do?
Jeremy: Of course. I'm so glad you finally decided to change everything about yourself.
Candace: What?! You didn't like how I was before?
Jeremy: But isn't that why you changed? So I would like you better?
Candace: Well, yeah...but...this isn't really...oh, wait. You're totally messing with me.
Jeremy: Yes, I am totally messing with you. Now, would you please knock off the phony British stuff and go back to being my girl?
Candace: You got it, bub.
Eliza: (carrying tea) So, how are we doing over here?
Candace: Turns out Jeremy liked me how I was before.
Eliza: Shocker.
Candace: Now if you two will excuse me, I've got some brothers to bust.
Jeremy: There's my girl.
Candace: Phineas and Ferb! You are soooo busted! Well, I don't need this goofy thing anymore. (tosses her huge poofy hat out the window)
Baljeet: Pass me the ball! (Candace's hat lands on his head, he cannot see. The ball hits him right in the crotch, and he whines:)
Pele (tallest one): Ooh.
Isabella: Ooh!
Buford: Ha ha!
Phineas: Ferb! The Eb above high C! From a boy in a Sunday bonnet! The curse! It's broken! We can actually win this thing! Pass it to Ferb, pass it to Ferb!
Baljeet: OHHH! I am kind of in the middle of something here!
Isabella: I got it!
(She passes the ball to Ferb, who performs a spectacular kick)
Beckham (blond): No!
Phineas: Yes!
Beckham (square glasses): Run!
(The ball does not make it into the goal.)
Beckham (half-moon glasses): Ha, it missed the goal by a mile.
(The timer runs out.)
Phineas: What happened? I guess the curse wasn't broken.
Ferb: No, it's broken. Sometimes, you just miss!

(The Nostrils enter through the doorway.)
Nostril #8: Hello!
Beckhams/Peles: It's the Snifferton Nostrils! Ooh! Nose goal!
Nostril #8: What a beautiful kick!
Phineas: But he missed the goal!
Nostril #8: It's not whether you score the goal. It's how good you look while kicking the ball.
Nostril in Jacket: Actually, it is about making goals.
(Scene switches to the front yard)
Lawrence: (still playing Keepy-Uppy) I'm awesome, you're not, I'm awesome, you're not...
Candace: Mom! Mom!
Linda: Shh! Just a second, Candace. Your father's doing his victory dance!

(Scene switches to outside the stadium...)
Nostril #8: So you're just gonna give us this Football X-7 stadium?
Phineas: Sure! We do that kind of thing all the time!
Baljeet: Yes! Once they gave a monster truck arena to Buck Buckerson!
Nostril in Jacket: Was that you?
Nostril #8: Thank you, Phineas, that's very generous of you. (to all of the Nostrils fans in the driveway) Hey, everyone!
Nostrils fans: Yes, Nostrils?
Nostril #8: See this thing?
Nostrils fans: Do you mean the Football X-7 stadium?
Nostril #8: Would you all help us load this on the bus?
Nostrils fans: We would all like that very much, what you just said.
(Lawrence is still doing the victory dance in the front yard as the Nostrils Fans load the Football X-7 stadium onto the bus)
(Scene switches to the backyard)
Professor E Forp: (removes a bag from his head) Is that a Football X-7 stadium? I knew it could be done! Professor Ross E Forp can finally come out of hiding!
Johnny: Mummy, that man's name is a palindrome.
Johnny's Mother: Look away, Johnny, look away.
Nostril #8: Man, you can get these fans to do anything. Thanks again, Phineas and Ferb!
♪ Nostrils on the bus! ♪
(The bus drives away, and the fans follow it)
(Scene switches to the front yard)
Candace: You see, Mom?!... (then, upset) Absolutely nothing. Oh, I am thinking some very unladylike things right now.
Jeremy and Eliza: That's our girl!

End Credits
Beckham (blond): Oi, Cousin Ferb, we're dreadfully sorry for giving you such a hard time. You're an brilliant footballer, an all-around good chap and a Brit through and through.
Ferb: Actually lads, I'm not a Brit or a Yank. I'm just Ferb.
(Song: "Nostrils on the Bus")
Jingle Singers: ♪ Nostrils on the bus! ♪
Nostril #3: ♪ It's not public transport ♪
♪ It's a sports-themed charter ♪
Nostrils: ♪ Association football ♪
Nostril #3: ♪ Nobody's rockin' harder ♪
♪ When you think about it ♪
♪ All you need to know about us is that ♪
Nostrils: ♪ We are the Nostrils ♪
Nostrils & Driver: ♪ And we're on this bus! ♪
Jingle Singers: ♪ Nostrils on the bus! ♪



(Scene starts outside of the Flynn-Fletcher home. In the backyard, Linda's working on a junk sculpture and currently is using a blowtorch)
Phineas: Hey, Mom. Whatcha doin'?
Linda: Hey, boys. I'm just working on my junk sculpture for the Modern Installations by Moms charity auction.
Phineas: Cool! Seen Dad?
Linda: Oh, he headed out for that speaking engagement of his.
Phineas: Aw, we're gonna shoot darts and we thought he might want to play around.
Linda: Maybe next time.
(In Candace's room, Candace is typing something on her computer)
Candace: What a racket! Those guys are so busted.
(blowtorch crackling)
(Candace gets off her chair then walks off)
I can't believe Mom isn't hearing this.
(In the backyard, Linda stops wielding and then lifts up the protection mask)
Linda: Wow, I've really got a knack for this modern art stuff. I need to go get more materials! (drops the blowtorch; runs off)
(Candace opens the slider then walks into the backyard)
Candace: So, mid-crime, huh?
(Looks at the junk sculpture which she thinks Phineas and Ferb had made. Camera then pans back to show the entire backyard.)
They'll be back.

(In the front yard, Phineas and Ferb are on a giant dart when Isabella goes to join them)
Isabella: Hey, Phineas. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Oh, hey, Isabella! We're playing giant darts!
Isabella: (flirtatiously) I bet you'll get a bulls-eye.
Phineas: (obliviously) Sure. Maybe not on the first try. It's all about little adjustments. And Buford and Baljeet are manning the target across town.
(Across town, Baljeet's been pulling a cart with a giant target on it.)
Baljeet: Tell me again how you are helping?
Buford: (lounging on a beach chair) I'm supervisin'!
(Back in the front yard)
Phineas: All right, here we go! Elevation, 33 degrees. Three, two, one...
Isabella: Have fun!
(Just after the giant dart leaves, Linda's backing her car down the driveway)
Linda: Hi, Isabella.
Isabella: Hi, Mrs. Flynn-Fletcher.
(Scene shifts to Phineas and Ferb flying in the air on the giant dart)
Phineas: With our current velocity and wind resistance, we should be nearing the target in no time.
(The giant dart flies past a sign for Honest Guy Used Cars. A hand on the sign then breaks off.)
Phineas: Whoops! Better retract the launch mechanism.
(He does so as the giant dart passes by D.E.I.)

(Scene shifts to Lawrence driving to his speaking engagement.)
Lawrence: Let's see, where to. Ah, yes. 9019, Palindrome Road.
(Camera pans to the previously seen sign. The broken cardboard hand falls off of it, lands on the road, and a piece of paper drops out of the sun visor. Lawrence then hits the aforementioned item and his car starts to tip over.)
Lawrence: Oh! That was close. (rights the car back up) Whoops! Dropped my address. (picks up the paper) Well, (places paper on the sun visor) 6106, Palindrome Road, here I come!

(Across town, Baljeet shields his eyes and spots the giant dart, which is currently off-screen)
Baljeet: Phineas and Ferb at ten o'clock!
Phineas: Oops. Outer ring. We'll try again.
Buford: Zero. Write that down, Baljeet.
(The launch mechanism on the giant dart crawls away)
Baljeet: Oh, yes, by all means, I do not want to forget to add zero later.
Phineas: Hey, I meant to ask you earlier. Where's Perry?

(Scene shifts to the backyard where Perry's taking a nap near one of his entrances. His wrist communicator beeps and he wakes up with a gasp. He goes into agent mode while a piece of the siding opens. The teal-furred monotreme then rolls into the entrance and lands in his chair with a back-flip.)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. Our sources tell us that the members of L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N.,
(Close up of Perry)
the League Of Villainous Evildoers Maniacally United For Frightening Investments in Naughtiness,
(Camera pans back)
are about to gather to elect their new leader. But we don't know where or how. See if you can gain access, and we'll survey the situation remotely through your wrist communicator.
(Perry presses a button, straps on his jet-pack, then leaves his lair)

(The following scene is a phone conversation between Linda, driving in her car, and Candace, who's still in the backyard)
Candace: (on her cell phone) Mom, you've gotta see what Phineas and Ferb made. I don't know what it is, but it looks horrible.
Linda: I'll be home right after I finish my errands.
Candace: But you gotta come home now before it disappears!
Linda: (imitating static) What's that? You're breaking up! (imitates static)
(In the backyard)
Candace: Wait! Mom! (growls) I hates when she does... (imitates static) ...but it doesn't matter. I'm not going anywhere.

(Meanwhile, Perry, flying on his jet-pack, has arrived at D.E.I. He unbuckles from the jet-pack, leaps through a two-paneled window, and falls into a tube.)
Doofenshmirtz: (laughs) Right in there.
(Perry lands into the trap... a large empty bottle)
You've heard of a ship in a bottle? Well, you're Perry the Platypus in a bottle. (picks up bottle) Anyway, today is the day I become the supreme leader of L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N.! You remember L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N., the League Of Villainous Evildoers Maniacally... (mumbling) Whatever?
(Close-up of Perry)
Huh? Remember them?
(Camera pans back)
Well, we gotta moving. (holds up bottle) Maybe we'll get some hot dogs or something on the way. (walks off) You like hot dogs, right?

(Back in the backyard, Candace is now sitting by the junk sculpture)
(thudding)
Candace: (gasps; stands up) That came from the front yard! (runs off) Phineas and Ferb!
(Linda walks into the backyard, carrying items for the junk sculpture)
(In the front yard, the giant dart is getting ready for its second launch. It leaves just as Candace opens the front door.)
Candace: A-ha! Huh?
(drill whirring)
(gasps) Backyard! (slams door closed)
(Linda's now backing out of the driveway for the second time)
Linda: Feathers. It needs feathers.
(Candace is back in the now empty backyard)
Candace: (gasps) Oh. My. Gosh.

(Scene shifts to the Danville Arena, and Lawrence is driving towards the parking lot)
Lawrence: (stops his car) Well, this is the place.
(Backstage; a man is at a desk looking at a paper.)
Lawrence: Yes, um, I'm supposed to be onstage?
Man: (puts paper down) They're about to get started. (pushes Lawrence towards stage) Go, go, go!
(Song: Evil Tonight)
♪ If you wanna see evil tonight at its best ♪
♪ We're the coolest of people ♪
♪ Put us to the test ♪
♪ If you're looking for heinous and iniquitous acts ♪
♪ Ethics cannot contain us ♪
♪ Sit back and relax ♪
♪ One of these cats will be our villainous star ♪
♪ So without further ado ♪
♪ Here they are! ♪
Rodney: I am Rodney, and I am from the great state of South Dakota, home of beautiful Mt. Rushmore... For now!
Doofenshmirtz: "I'm Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz, and I like unicorns and rainbows..." Wait, who switched my...
Rodney: (laughs)
Diminutive: I'm Dr. Diminutive and I don't have a Napoleon complex. Napoleon had a me complex! Don't cross me!
♪ Of course the L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N bylaws which govern us all ♪
♪ Say to enter this pageant, you must be this tall ♪
♪ So disqualified! ♪
Diminutive: You can't do that!
♪ Yes, we can! ♪
Diminutive: Why?
♪ 'Cause we're evil ♪
♪ Evil ♪
♪ Evil tonight! ♪
Lawrence: Excuse me, is this the way to the stage?
Announcer: It looks like we have a late entry!
(Camera pans to Perry, who spits out his drink onto the glass. He then wipes some off to see better.)

(Across town, Baljeet spots the giant dart for the second time)
Baljeet: Phineas and Ferb at ten o'clock again!
Phineas: Awesome! Triple ring, triple score!
Buford: Yeah, but in the one-point wedge. Three points, Baljeet.
Baljeet: When do I get to supervise?
Buford: Don't hold your breath.

(In the backyard, Candace's back to watching the junk sculpture)
Candace: No one comes in, no one goes...
(dart squeaking)
Forget it. I'm not moving.
(squeaking continues)
Phineas: (off screen) Okay, Ferb, let's reset and adjust both axes by five degrees.
Candace: (groans) I can't stand it! (runs off)
(Once again, the giant dart leaves just before Candace opens the front door)
Candace: Ha!
(drill whirring)
Candace: (closes door) I'm gonna bust you yet!
(And once again, Linda pulls her car out of the driveway)
Linda: Now to the butcher for the finishing touch.
(Back in the backyard)
Candace: What the...?

(Scene shifts to the Arena, where the pageant is about to begin)
Announcer: Welcome to the first annual L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. Pageant of Evil,...
(Camera pans to the left to show Lawrence, Doofenshmirtz, and Rodney)
...where these three gentlemen will vie for the chance to tell you what's what.
Lawrence: (oblivious to what's going on) I thought I was already confirmed. Prepared my speech and everything.
Announcer: In addition to gaining total control of the iron...
(Camera pans to Perry, who has his bill and hands pressed on the glass)
...hand of L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N.,...
(Perry pulls out a glass cutter out from his fedora then starts cutting the glass bottle)
our contestants will each receive a commemorative flashlight...
(Just then, Perry's wristwatch communicator beeps)
Major Monogram: (on wristwatch communicator) Agent P, it's come to our attention that Lawrence Fletcher, from your host family, has somehow entered the L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. Supreme Ruler Pageant.
(Close-up of Perry, with glass cutter in his left hand, looking at his wrist communicator)
Of course, considering his genial nature,...
(Close-up of Monogram on Perry's wristwatch communicator)
...a win for him would really stretch my suspension of disbelief. But just in case, you better sit tight and just observe.
(Camera pans back to the announcer, and there's a scoreboard showing on a monitor)
Announcer: Remember, points will be awarded by the audience,...
(Camera pans to some of the audience, all holding a voting device )
...so get out your voting boxes.
(Camera pans back to the announcer)
Our first evil event, the mechanical mother.
(Camera pans to the right. A trap door opens to reveal the aforesaid robot then it pans to show the three contestants.)
Show us how you treat the old lady, Larry!
Lawrence: Wish me luck, boys. (at the mechanical mother) Hello, old dear, so lovely to see you. (bows) I've brought you some peonies. (pulls out a bouquet)
Mechanical mother: Oh, such a nice boy.
(audience laughing)
(Camera pans to Doofenshmirtz and Rodney)
Rodney: I didn't think anyone could be more incompetent at being evil than you.
Doofenshmirtz: Me neither.
(Close-up of a worried Perry)
Announcer: And now, he's serving her tea without a trace of irony!
(Perry gives a sigh of relief. The camera then pans back to Doofenshmirtz and Rodney)
Lawrence: (as he walks back) Remember to keep that foot elevated. (to the other two) What a lovely, old girl.
Rodney: Prepare yourself for a stunning display of filial beastliness. (walks away)
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, knock yourself out, Rodney.
Rodney: (holding a present; at the mechanical mother) Hello, Mother. (kneels on one knee) I've brought you something special!
(Audience booing; Rodney stands up)
Mechanical mother: For me? (opens present) You're such a good...
(Close-up of the present, which has dirty laundry in it)
Announcer: Ooh! Dirty laundry!
(Close-up of the mechanical mother)
And there go the waterworks.
(Mechanical mother "cries"; audience cheers)
Rodney: (chuckles) Yeah. That's how it's done, boys.
Mechanical Mother: Oh! My baby still needs me!
Rodney: Huh?
Announcer: Oh, no! Tears of joy? Zero points for that move!
Doofenshmirtz: Ooh, you monster. Watch and learn, Rodney. (clears throat; at mechanical mother) I am getting married again.
(Doofenshmirtz walks off and then the mechanical mother explodes.)
(Close-up of the audience)
Announcer: Audience, get your votes in, please.
(Camera pans to the scoreboard. And at the end of event 1, it's Doofenshmirtz in the lead with 146 points, followed by Rodney with 2 and Lawrence with zero.)
Lawrence: (at a smug Doofenshmirtz) I don't know how you did it! I don't even think I understood the event, but good show!
(Doofenshmirtz blows a raspberry at Rodney)
Announcer: And we're back with everyone's favorite, the swimwear competition! Here comes Lawrence Fletcher...
(Camera pans to the stage and the black curtains open)
...wearing swim attire inspired by the legendary Klimpaloon,...
(A grinning Lawrence comes on stage, wearing an old-fashioned swim attire and holding a beach ball with one hand. He then places the beach ball on his head.)
...the magical old-timey bathing suit that lives in the Himalayas! Watch out for that Yeti, Larry!
(Lawrence bows while the audience applauds)
Next up is Heinz Doofenshmirtz.
(Doofenshmirtz comes out wearing a Speedo, towel, and roller skates, slipping towards the stage)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, I thought this was the talent competition! (skates off balance; falls head first into a toilet; muffled yelling) It won't stop flushing!
(audience laughs)
Announcer: (pause) And last is Rodney in his... (curtain opens) Oh, my gosh!
Rodney: (growls)
(audience gasps)
Rodney: (leaps out of tank; removes rubber mask) Technically, it is a swimsuit.
(Camera pans to the scoreboard. And at the end of event 2, it's now a tie between Doofenshmirtz and Rodney with 342 points while Lawrence is finally on the board with 8. Perry gives a sigh of relief.)

(Backyard; Candace's looking at the junk sculpture)
Candace: Meat? What possible functionality could that have?

(Scene shifts to the backstage at the Arena, where Doofenshmirtz walks out of one of the changing rooms)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, come on, Rodney, the last event's about to... What? Wait, that's my Make-Everything-Evil-inator!
Rodney: No, Doofy, it's my Make-Everything-Evil-izer. It's an -Izer.
Doofenshmirtz: You're a jerk, you know that?
Rodney: Yes! And I'm going to be more of one when I zap myself with this! (pulls on a lever) I'll be so evil there'll be no way I can lose!
Doofenshmirtz: (quickly sits on Rodney's lap) I'll zap me first!
(A fight then starts between the two evil scientists)
(with Rodney) You quit it!
(Doofenshmitz then breaks off the lever)
Rodney: You broke my Izer!
Doofenshmirtz: Inator! Inator!
Rodney: Shut it!
Doofenshmirtz: No, you shut it!
(Just then, Lawrence walks out of another dressing room)
Lawrence: Have you seen these flashlights...AAH!
(Lawrence gets zapped by the ray, falls through the curtain, and somehow arrives on the stage. He turns on a flashlight, turns around, then laughs deviously. The camera pans to a worried Rodney and Doofenshmirtz.)
Rodney, Doofenshmirtz: Uh-oh.

(In the backyard, two delivery men has arrived to take the junk sculpture away)
Delivery Man: Excuse us. We're here to take, uh this... thing away.
Candace: (stands up from lawn) What? No!
Delivery Man: Sorry, kid. We got a work order right here.
Candace: No! Nooooo!

(Scene shifts to the Arena where the third and final event is about to begin)
Announcer: And now the final event where each of our three contestants will attempt to intimidate the others with only the force of his evil glare. Contestants, take your marks.
(The trio does so, each moving to a different place on the stage.)
Get set. And begin!
(audience cheers)
The voting has started! Look at those fingers go!
(Close-up of the scoreboard then of Rodney)
Rodney is off to an early lead. It's the pointy-ear advantage! But wait! What's this?
(Close-up of Lawrence)
Fletcher has his eyes covered. He's not even trying!
(Perry gives a sigh of relief)
Announcer: This could be a real opportunity for Doofenshmirtz!
(Close-up of Doofenshmirtz's face and then Rodney's)
He leers at Rodney. Rodney returns it. With a point! A classic gambit!
(Camera pans to the scoreboard)
The scores are really ticking up now and... Wait! There's a stirring in the Fletcher corner.
(Another close-up of Lawrence, but this time his hand's shaking)
Something's happening...
(A white light appears and after Lawrence removes his hand, Doofenshmirtz gasps in shock)
Doofenshmirtz: Such evil!
(Lawrence then looks at Rodney)
Rodney: (shielding his face) Oh! My eyes!
Announcer: And the crowd is going wild! Fletcher's numbers are skyrocketing!
(Camera pans to a worried Perry, and then his wristwatch communicator starts beeping)
Major Monogram: (on wristwatch communicator) Agent P, our sensors reveal that Lawrence Fletcher has been shot with a Make-Everything-Evil-izer. If he should become the supreme leader of L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N., we will have no choice but to reassign you. You must find a way to snap him out of it. Remind him of his true, good nature. Remind him who he used to be!
(Perry straps on his jet-pack then blasts his way out of the glass bottle. When he reaches outside, the sky is beginning to darken.)
Phineas: (off screen) This is the one, Bro. I can feel it.
(Perry tips the tail end of the giant dart, which changes its course to the Danville Area. Inside, the announcer puts a medal on Lawrence's neck.)
Announcer: I now present to you, the new supreme leader of L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N., Lawrence Fletcher!
Lawrence: Today, Danville! Tomorrow, the world! (chuckling)
Doofenshmirtz: We have term limits in L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N., right?
Rodney: Nope!
Lawrence: (laughs evilly)
(Just then, the giant dart comes flying in and...)
Phineas: Bull's-eye!
(Lawrence continues to evilly gloat then the camera pans to Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: I think that's Dad.
Ferb: What was the topic of his lecture again?
Phineas: Hi, Dad!
(Lawrence turns around and when he sees the boys, he stops with the evil laughter. Then flashbacks from previous episodes are being shown.)
Lawrence: (taking off medal; flings it away) Phineas! Ferb! What are you doing here?
(Perry gives a sign of relief then takes off on his jet-pack)
Lawrence: (shaking Phineas's hand) Brilliant shot, by the way.
Phineas: Aah, it's all about little adjustments.
(Close-up of the medal then the camera pans to Doofenshmirtz and Rodney)
Doofenshmirtz, Rodney: Mine! Mine! Mine!
(The two evil scientists start fighting and arguing over the medal)
Rodney: It's mine!
Doofenshmirtz: Ooh! I hate you!
Phineas: (as he, Ferb, and Lawrence walk away) So, how'd it go, Dad?
Lawrence: I'm not absolutely sure, boys, but I think I just became "King of the Pharmacists".
(Perry, in pet mode, is waiting for the boys and Lawrence at the exit)
Phineas: Awesome! (at Perry) Oh, there you are, Perry.

(At the Flynn-Fletcher home, the junk sculpture is currently lying on the back of a flatbed truck. One of the delivery men is holding back a stubborn Candace, who still thinks Phineas and Ferb has built it.)
Candace: (grunts) No! Not until Mom has seen it.
Delivery Man: Sorry, miss, I got a job to do.
Linda: Candace is right. Because it's not done yet.
(Camera shows a crazed-looking Candace while Linda climbs onto the flatbed. Linda then places a coat hanger on the sculpture.)
Linda: There. Take it away, guys. That junk sculpture should bring in big bids at the auction. (climbs down the flatbed)
Candace: (in surprise) Junk sculpture?! (stuttering)
(The flatbed truck drives down the driveway)
Linda: Honestly, Candace, it's not like lip-synching is my only talent.
Candace: (continues stuttering)
Linda: Well, now you're just being rude.

End Credits
(Song: Evil Tonight)
Diminutive: I don't have a Napoleon complex, Napoleon had a me complex! Don't cross me!
♪ Of course the L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N bylaws which govern us all ♪
♪ Say to enter this pageant, you must be this tall ♪
♪ So disqualified! ♪
Diminutive: You can't do that!
♪ Yes, we can! ♪
Diminutive: Why?
♪ 'Cause we're evil ♪
♪ Evil ♪
♪ Evil tonight! ♪






 ...Because the worst part of the party is the cleanup, am I right?
This article may require clean-up to meet Phineas and Ferb Wiki's standards.
Please improve the article if you can.
(August 15, 2012) 
(Scene opens up in front of a haunted house in a movie - bat chatters)
Michael: You can't fly away from us, Jared!
(Jared transforms into human from bat)
Michael: Ha, now you're trapped!
(Tears open gate and runs inside)
Kristen: He's bent the gate!
(Movie Theater with Candace and Stacy)
Michael: His vampire strength won't save him this time.
Candace: (to Stacy) Wow, super vampire strength.
Stacy: And he's super cute.
Audience Member: Ssshhh!
(scene switches to movie)
Candace: Oh, look! He has no reflection in that mirror.
Jared: I can't see my hair!
(runs to another room)
Wolfman: (growls)
(scene switches to movie theater)
Candace: Look Stacy he's cornered. Now he's really stuck.
Audience Member: Ssshhh!
Stacy: Speaking of 'stuck', what's up with this floor?
(scene switches to movie)
Kristen: Jared, Michael, don't do this!
Michael: (Growls) It's the end of the line, Jared.
Jared: I'd expect this from your kind, Michael. Football players I mean, but Kristen, we were both moody outcasts, we.. we loved each other!
Kristen: Yes, yes we did.
Jared: We did, and, wait a minute, wasn't he just wearing a shirt (To Michael)
(walks to purple curtain with Kristen)
Michael: You can no longer drink the blood of those you love.
Jared: Wait, those drapes were a gift from my.... Ahhh! (sun shines in room) The hideous light of the day star! (becomes a liquid-body of himself - a gust of wind blows his frozen body away)
Kristen: Where did that wind come from?
Michael: Oops, sorry. I opened a window, it was getting stuffy in here.
(back to Candace and Stacy exiting movie theater)
Stacy: That was the best movie ever.
Candace: Yeah I know. Imagine if you had to choose between a blood-thirsty undead walking corpse and a slobbering hairy-lupine manbys for a boyfriend. (camera zooms on Candace) What could possibly be cooler? (shakes hand up knocking down the LIVE BAT from cage - Candace screams)
Candace: Get off me!
(Candace keeps saying "Get off me" and rolling in circles on floor)
Theater Usher: Careful with that promotional bat, it's rented.
Stacy: You really rented a bat.
Theater Usher: Yeah I know, it seemed like a good idea at the time.
Stacy: Oh no, I think it's really paying off here. (Candace continues saying "Get off me")
(backyard)
Phineas: I know what you mean, Ferb, it does seem like more than 104 days.
Linda: Boys, I'm off to Bobbi's. If you need anything, your father's inside watching television.
(inside house with Lawrence - spooky music plays from TV)
Lawrence: Well, this isn't much of a horror movie. Where are the rock-and-roll musical numbers?
(Backyard)
Linda: Oh, and Ferb, you left your pen on the kitchen table. Have fun today, I'll be back later.
(Phineas and Ferb waving goodbye)
Phineas: Bye mom! I was wondering where that went. (to Ferb) Okay Ferb, lets have a look through our blueprints.
(Ferb clicks pen open)'
Phineas: Cooking powered jet cars, haunted office building ride with tensos, a reenactment with the battle of Danville?
Isabella: (walks in with a bamboo in her hand) Hey Phineas! What'cha dooooin?
(Phineas and Ferb stand up)
Phineas: Trying to think of something to do today. What's that?
Isabella: This is Bambina, my bamboo. Only, she's not doing so well.
(Bamboo coughs)
Isabella: She needs help.
Phineas: The poor girl probably just needs some sunlight. Ferb and I can rake up a super growth lamp in no time.
Isabella: You'd do that for me?
Phineas: Sure! Ferb, I know what we're...
(Buford interrupts Phineas)
Buford: Hey!
(Buford and Baljeet enter, Buford caring Baljeet in a dog cage)
Buford: How come you guys are making something special for her? What about me?
(Baljeet opens cage door)
Baljeet: And me?
Buford: It's a nerd carrier. I had a heck of a getting him in. Scratched me all up!
(Buford closes cage door)(Irving shows his face from behind a fence)
Irving: I'd like something, too!
Buford: How long have you been there?
Irving: I'm not sure. What's today?
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're doing today. Taking requests. (pause) Hey, where's Perry?
(scene switches to Perry's HQ with Major Monogram playing Jump N' Duck)
Major Monogram: Oh, oh Agent P! How long have you been sitting there? Huh, guess I'd better get started. You received a weird message from Dr. Doofenshmirtz this morning, claiming that he will no longer seek to take over the Tri-State area. Then he used a very unusual method for conveying his message. Carl?
Carl: He wrote a letter by hand and put it in an envelope and sent it through the regular mail with a stamp and everything. Who does that? And it's scented. (smells envelope) Mmm, Milbank Nights. One of the better perfumes to come out of South Dakota.
Major Monogram: When an evil scientist sends preread letters wrongdoing can't be far behind. Dismissed Agent P! Carl, let me uh, smell that letter again, would ya?
(scene switches to Candace and Stacy walking down a street)
Stacy: I don't know, Candace, you're just lucky that bat didn't bite you. I mean, what if it was a vampire bat?
Candace: Me, a vampire? Don't be silly, Stacy. It would be cool to have super strength though. And be able to fly.
Stacy: Yeah, but you'd never be able to see yourself in the mirror again. How would you put on your make-up?
(scene switches to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the platypus, didn't you get my letter? Oh, of course not, here I-I'll read it to you.
(Doofenshmirtz reads letter)
Doofenshmirtz: Dear Perry the Platypus, I know Major Monogram will ignore my letter and send you to stop me. That's why you are now trapped. Best wishes, your nemesis, Heinz. (finishes letter, talks to Perry) Come to think of it, it wouldn't of made much sense until now, it's probably good that you didn't get it earlier. It would have just been confusing, and I would have to be stuck with having to explain it to you. Speaking of stuck, you've landed on a square of the stickiest surface known to man. It's a tile from the floor of the Danville Multiplex. I discovered it when I went to go see that teen vampire movie. Loved it! And now... (closes window of machine) Behold, the Gimmelshtump-inator!
(sounds from Gimmelshtump-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: See, Perry the Platypus, I've been setting my sights too high, I think. Trying to subdue a modern city, I need to conquer a backward land where people are superstitious. That's why I'm going to turn the Tri-State area into a reasonable festival in Gimmelshtump. The buildings, the clothing, the or easily conquered backward mindset. Here's a sample, look.
(scene switches to Doofenshmirtz's bathroom)
Doofenshmirtz: My beautiful modern state of the art bathroom is changed into...
(the Gimmelshtump-inator shoots a ray at the bathroom changing the bathroom to a Gimmelshtump background)
Doofenshmirtz: A Gimmelshtumpian potter room. (scene switches to Dr. Doofenshmirtz) Ahh, that takes me back.
(scene switches to Candace and Stacy at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: Well, I got to get home Stacy. Jeremy's supposed to drop off my MP3 player this afternoon on his way to work.
Stacy: Well, don't attack him, Ms. un-dead!
Candace: Right, as if. (talking to herself) Jeremy won't be here for another couple minutes. That gives me just enough to time to bust Phineas and Ferb.
(Candace opens gate door to backyard)
Candace: Okay, you guys are so... hey, they're not here. What's this? This stuff's way below they're usually bustable level. I wonder what they're doing out here with dad's old barbells. (Candace lifts barbells) Hey, I've never been able to... (gasps) Super strength. What if there really was a vampire bat? Candace, get a hold of yourself. I mean, it's not like I can fly. (Candace floats in air) Oh my gosh! Okay there's only one way to know for sure. A mirror. (Candace's reflection in the mirror disappears) Oh no, no reflection!
(scene switches to a "Two minutes earlier" sign)
Narrator Voice: Two minutes earlier...
(scene switches to Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Baljeet, Buford and Irving in the backyard)
Phineas: Okay Ferb, let's run through the list. To fulfill Isabella's request, we've rigged a super bright (lamp turns on) pro-light to inadvertent go on and off as Bambina needs it. (lamp turns off) Next, Baljeet's request to lift heavy objects accomplished by using gravity-counter acting barbells. Check.
Baljeet: I am so happy. I have just torn my roariltica.
Phineas: Buford's request to float in the air using levitation air jets in the lawn.
Buford: Now I can look down on everyone.
Phineas: Last up is Irving's request to be invisible. Accomplished with this mirror shape live video playback and effects screen.
Irving: Sweet!
(scene switches to a "Two and a half minutes later" sign)
Narrator Voice: Two and a half minutes later...
(scene switches back to Candace)
Candace: Is it possible? Am I a vampire?
(lamp turns on for Bambina)
Candace: (Candace screeches) The hideous light of the day star! (gasps) I am a vampire. I must hide myself! (runs inside house)
(scene switches to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Now, what's going to be the first part of the Tri-State Area (Perry tears the floor tile from the ground - his feet still attached - and jumps onto Doofenshmirtz in the Gimmelshtump-inator) to get the Gimmelshtump make over?
(fighting scene between Dr. Doofenshmirtz and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: Ow ow ow ow. Oh ya, take that! (Perry's hat flies in air) Haha, oh let me go, not the fore, forhe-- (takes breath) I don't know if you noticed or not but I was boxing champion in my middle-school back in Gimmelshtump and I got a few moves in... (Perry punches him in the stomach. Doofenshmirtz falls in Inator then Perry jumps onto him)
(scene switches to Jeremy at Flynn house entrance)
Jeremy: (knocks on door, then opens it) Candace? I brought your MP3 player with... (Candace screeches)
Candace: Don't look at me! I have to get away from you, Jeremy! For your own protection.
(Candace runs past Lawrence watching the horror movie with Jeremy following)
Jeremy: Oh, hey Mr. Fletcher.
(Lawrence waves back)
Jeremy: Oh Candace! Hey!
Candace: I have to find Phineas and Ferb! They'll know how to change me back.
Stacy: Did Candace just jump over that fence?
Jeremy: You had to take her to the vampire movie, didn't you?
(Song: Vampire Song)
♪ It's not romantic or that cool, ♪
♪ To live forever more! ♪
♪ Or when you have to buy your undead things, ♪
♪ From Danville's one Goth store! ♪
♪ I'm a grim and lonely vampire teen, ♪
♪ Living in a brightly lit suburban dream. ♪
♪ I should sleep, sleep, sleep 'til the day is done, ♪
♪ But I'm a lost little vampire in the sun! ♪
(scene switches to Dr. Doofenshmirtz's building with rays shot from the Gimmelshtump-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Quit it! Quit it! Quit it!
(scene switches to two guys on a street)
1st Guy: Yeah, my dad said I could drive it just as long as I didn't get a scratch on it.
(Candace runs past the guys - Gimmelshtump-inator turns the car into a horse)
1st Guy: Oh my dad's going to kill me!
2nd Guy: Why dude? It's not scratched.
(scene switches to Candace running inside Slushy Dog restaraunt)
Candace: Jeremy!
Jeremy: Oh hey Candace! Did you come to pick up your MP3 player?
Candace: Huh, no-no! Have you seen my brothers?
Jeremy: Sure, yeah they were just here. They went home to look for you.
(Gimmelshtump-inator shoots ray at the Slushy Dog restaurant and other buildings around it)
Candace: Oh no, villagers! (runs out of Slushy Dog restaurant and screams)
Jeremy: (German accent) Vat about your music box mitt ze Tiny Cowboy?
(scene switches to a marathon and Gimmelshtump-inator shoots marathoners to angry villagers who chase Candace)
Candace: Oh no! More villagers! Gotta get home x4.
(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz and Perry inside Gimmelshtump-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: You don't stand a chance with that tile still stuck to your feet. (Perry jumps, and hits Doofenshmirt's knee and runs) Oh oh, my knee again, really?! (Doofenshmirtz chases after Perry. Perry comes behind a wall, forces one of his feet off the floor tile and uses it to trip Dr. Doofenshmirtz into a window) Wait wait wait! I need a bathroom break. I'll be right back. Okay? Don't do anything until I get back, okay? Don't touch a thing. I'll be right uhh... Ooohh. (Doofenshmirtz realizes his bathroom was changed into a pot and a light bulb, Perry jumps out of the Gimmelshtump-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: What was that?
(Perry activates the Inator to move forward and crash in the street and change everything Gimmelshtumpian style back to reality, Scene switches to Slushy Dog and other buildings changes back. Scene switches to the two guys with a car. The horse stands upright as the Inator changes it back into a car, though, standing upright, and the car flips over)
2nd Guy: Well now it's scratched.
(scene switches back to Doofenshmirtz in his bathroom)
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you Perry the plat... (Gimmelshtump-inator reverses his bathroom back to reality) Ohh, never mind!
(scene switches to Candace at the Flynn-Fletcher house entrance)
Candace: Phineas, open the door! (knocks on door) Open the door, open the door. There's angry villagers out here. Open the door!
(Phineas opens door with Ferb)
Phineas: Hey Candace, what's wrong?
Candace: There's a bunch of villagers and they're after me.
Phineas: You mean those guys? (shows marathoners running) Candace, I think they'd preferred to be called marathoners. (scene switches back to Phineas) Why would marathoners be following anyone? Besides you know, three guys from Kenya.
Candace: Because I'm a vampire Phineas.
Phineas: What makes you think you're a vampire?
Candace: Well I can lift heavy objects and I can levitate and... and I can't see my reflection in the mirror.
Ferb: It sounds like a vampire to me.
Phineas: Woah, woah, woah, woah, come here Ferb, come here. I think I know what's going on here. Candace, when you discovered that you had these powers, were you in the backyard?
Candace: Yeah, why?
Phineas: Oh Candace that was just some stuff we made for our friends.(takes glasses off Candace) Your not a vampire, look I'll prove it. (takes hoodie off Candace) See? The sun has absolutely no affect on you.
(Candace turns to dust and blows away from the wind)
Phineas: Ferb, we're gonna need a dustpan and some glue.

End credits
(Song: Vampire Song)
♪ Or when you have to buy your undead things, ♪
♪ From Danville's one Goth store! ♪
♪ I'm a grim and lonely vampire teen, ♪
♪ Living in a brightly lit suburban dream. ♪
♪ I should sleep, sleep, sleep 'til the day is done, ♪
♪ But I'm a lost little vampire in the sun! ♪



(Scene opens at Flynn-Fletcher Antiques)
Lawrence: (from inside) Nice to see you boys down here at the shop!
(Cut to Phineas, Ferb and Lawrence walking in the antique shop)
Phineas: Wow! What's that thing?
Lawrence: Oh, this? It's an escape chamber from an old vaudeville show. In the old days, men would go into these things and pretend to be locked inside and then they would "escape" to the amazement of the crowd. Here, let me show you. (goes inside the chamber) You see? All you need to do is just... (tries to escape) Uh.... Hmm...
Phineas: You need a little help, Dad?
Lawrence: Well, no, no, I just need to, um... Oh! (Ferb helps him out) There we go. Thanks, son.
(A confused Phineas looks to the left)
Lawrence: Well, I've got bottle caps to polish. (walks away) Hmhm!
Phineas: (at Ferb) Dude! I know what we're gonna do today!
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Linda: Oh, no. I'm late for my introduction to ice sculpture. (Writes a note and goes outside to Candace sleeping on the hammock) I suppose there's no need to wake her. (puts the note on her head, then leaves)
Candace: (snoring)
(Song: "Quirky Worky Song" (lullaby version))
(Candace continues snoring. Meanwhile, Phineas and Ferb are starting to work on their Big Idea.)
Candace: (mumbling in sleep) Where's Perry?

(Back inside the house; Perry walks into the boys' room, goes into agent mode, holds onto a red hoop, and puts on his fedora. He then takes an orange-and-yellow box and performs a quick magic trick with it.)
(Cut to Perry's lair where he enters through a tube. While he runs towards his chair, the camera pans to the monitor where Carl is practicing some table etiquette.)
Carl: And the salad fork is the one on the outside.
(Perry jumps onto his chair)
Major Monogram: (holding a clipboard and pen) And you're certain of that... (Perry's chair slides forward) Ah! Agent P!
(Close-up of Monogram)
Major Monogram: As you may know, this is International Good Manners Day. Perhaps, not ironically, Dr. Doofenshmirtz has chosen this very week to create a device that causes rampant rudeness. Go take care of it.
(Close-up of Perry)
Major Monogram: If you please.
(Perry salutes; the camera then pans back.)
Carl: (while Perry leaves his lair) I bet he calls it the Rude-inator.
Major Monogram: What does that make you? Nostradamus?

(Back in the backyard, Phineas and Ferb are now standing next to their Big Idea.)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls! My brother and I are here today to give you a thrilling display of escapement arts as we attempt, to extricate ourselves from this,...
(The camera pans up to show an incredibly tall tower.)
Phineas: ...the most complicated trap ever devised by man or child! A computer controlled tower so fiendishly clever that...
(Camera pans to Buford, Isabella, and Baljeet, who are standing near the tree.)
Phineas: ...its blueprints had to be viewed in a smoked mirror to avoid driving its creators insane!
Isabella: Wow, he's really selling it hard.
Baljeet: But if you designed the tower, will you not know every way to get out?
Phineas: (taps tower with cane) We programmed it to learn as it goes, so it's conceivable we could be trapped in there forever. (taps tower with cane again) Coming with?
Isabella: Yes! I mean, no./Baljeet: No!
Isabella/Baljeet: No.
Buford: It sounds ill-advised.
Phineas: That's okay. You guys can stay out here and be the cheering section with Candace.
(Camera pans to Candace)
Candace: (snoring) Must bust Phineas and Ferb.
Baljeet: But what if you do not come out?
Phineas: If we're not out in 15 minutes, you can smash the machine and rescue us, just like in the old days.
Buford: (brings out mallet) Sounds like a party.
Phineas: Ferb? Start the timer please!
(Ferb flips a switch; timer on the tower activates)
Buford: Synchronizing watches!
Phineas: (he and Ferb walks onto an elevator) Women and children and the faint of heart may wish (pushes button with cane) to leave now. (as the elevator rises up) So we bid you adieu! Goodbye! Auf wiedersehen! Farewell, friends!
(The elevator lowers him and Ferb into the tower.)
Phineas: And we'll see you in a few minutes! Or not at all!
(The now empty elevator rises up again, the door closes, which activated the locks.)
(timer beeping)
Baljeet: Legally speaking, what is our liability here?

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! ♪
(Scene starts with Perry next to a mat and a sign which reads "Please... Wipe Feet!" There's a pause then he does just that. Just then, a trap door activates and he falls into it. The trap door rises a second later and Perry's now trapped in a cat suit. Doofenshmirtz then leaps out and hooks a leash onto the collar.)
Doofenshmirtz: A-ha! I wanted to say something clever about "cat got your tongue", but I haven't worked it out. You see, when we were small children, my brother Roger was always better at the whole manners and etiquette thing.
(Flashback)
Young Roger: Sweet Aunt Effie, you have always been my favorite!
Aunt Effie: (pinching young Roger's cheek) Roger, so polite. (hands young Roger a coin) Heinz?
Young Doofenshmirtz: That's some mole!
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: (sighs) It takes a long time to clean out a chicken coop with a spoon. And I still don't see how that was rude. I mean, that thing was gargantuan. If anything, I was showing restraint. Anyway, today, it is International Good Manners Day, and we've got a visiting dignitary. She's the ambassador from England! Only the most etiquetty country in the whole world, hello! And when Roger's introducing her I'm going to zap him with my Rude-inator!
(Camera pans to the Rude-inator then back to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: That's what I'm calling it.
(Perry gives an unimpressed look)
Doofenshmirtz: It makes whoever it zaps intolerably rude! He'll cause an international incident! And in all the confusion, I'll just waltz in and take over. So, why the catsuit? Well, we're going to be at City Hall to watch the fireworks, you and me, and I figured a platypus in a fedora might attract too much attention! Smart, huh? (walks away with a smug look) See, me, always thinking.

(Cut to Phineas and Ferb, now inside the tower.)
Phineas: Good day to you, Tower. We're ready to begin.
Tower: Welcome, boys. We're gonna have so much fun together. (puts strait-jackets on the boys) Put on your coats and stay a while.
Phineas: Strait-jackets. Classic. Ready?
(He stands on his head. Ferb then grabs hold of Phineas's strait-jacket with his teeth.)
Phineas: Okay, shake me out.
(Ferb does so; Phineas escapes from his strait-jacket.)
Phineas: Awesome!
(Phineas then quickly undoes the buckle off of Ferb's.)
Phineas: (after Ferb shakes his strait-jacket off) This is gonna be fun.
(The tower puts the boys in chains then pulls them up to a dungeon.)
Phineas: I don't know, Ferb, I think we should "file" (pulls out a file) this under Dungeon Escape.
(The boys escapes from the chains off-screen then walks towards a grate. Phineas removes it and he and Ferb goes into the next room.)

(Cut to the City Hall.)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, here we are! (chuckles) Right up close! You sit here, Perry the Catypus. (laughs) I just came up with that. That totally makes up for missing the "cat got your tongue" thing from before.
Roger: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to City Hall on this fine first day of National Etiquette Week.
(Audience applauds; camera then pans to Perry.)
Woman: I do love proper etiquette!

(Inside the tower, the camera shows a room with doors of various sizes and some keys lying on the floor. The largest of the doors opens and Phineas and Ferb enters the room.)
Phineas: Hmm. Big keys, tiny doors. We're not fitting through any of those, but maybe that one!
(Camera pans up to the exit then down to the boys. Ferb grabs some of the keys and uses them to make a stair.)
Phineas: Ferb, you're a genius!
(Ferb finishes placing keys in the keyholes then he and Phineas escapes the room.)
Tower: Nice warm up, boys.
(The boys are now climbing up a metal ladder.)
Tower: But can you escape the relentless pull of gravity?
(The tower flips the trap upside down and the boys looses their grip then falls down.)
Phineas: (screaming) It's the Bottomless Pit Trap. (he and Ferb high fives)
(Outside in the backyard, the timer first shows 11:27, then 11:26, and finally 11:25. The camera then pans to Baljeet, who's placing a pyramid of playing cards on the sleeping Candace.)
Baljeet: It would be terrible if they did not come out!
Isabella: I know! (squirts some shaving cream on Candace's head)
(Camera pans to Buford, sharping his mallet on an old-fashioned grindstone.)
Buford: I'm countin' on it.

(City Hall; Roger's continuing with his speech.)
Roger: And to speak further on this topic, it is my great pleasure to introduce the Ambassador from England, the most etiquetty country in the world...
Doofenshmirtz: Told you!
Roger: ... and my personal friend,
(Doofenshmirtz presses a button on a controller)
(Cut to D.E.I., where a ray from the Rude-inator fires)
(Back at City Hall)
Roger: ...this unbelievable windbag right here.
(Camera pans to a grinning Doofenshmirtz then to a shocked looking ambassador)
(man coughing)
Roger: Oh, man! On and on and on in the limo over here. (mimicking ambassador) "Manners are so important."
Doofenshmirtz: Can you believe this, Perry the...
(Camera pans to show that Perry had escaped the catsuit trap)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, for Pete's sake, Perry the Platypus. I told you to go before we left. (at himself) He better bring back some popcorn, that's all I can say.
Roger: ...what a pompous know-it-all you are.
Woman: That's it! I want a recall.
All: Recall! Recall! Recall!
Doofenshmirtz: (grinning) It's working!

(In the Bottomless Pit Trap, Phineas finally gets an idea)
Phineas: Wait! I've got it. Give me your hands.
(He and Ferb clasp hands then slows down to a halt. Mostly as Phineas notices the exit out of the trap.)
Phineas: Come on, Tower!
(He kicks the door open with a foot)
Phineas: Is that the best you can can throw at us?
Tower: (rudely) Ooh, so special. I don't give a flying buttress.
(The boys are now crawling in a narrow tunnel)
Phineas: Tower, are you feeling okay?
Tower: Oh, what's it to you?
Phineas: Oh, nothing, nothing.
(Camera shifts to the interior of a sawmill. Phineas opens a door from the inside of a hollow log.)
Phineas: I thought we programmed you to be more polite than this.
(He stands on the log then helps Ferb up onto it.)
Tower: You think you're so sharp, don't you?
(Ferb closes the door; the tower then ties him and Phineas onto the log.)
Tower: I'm gonna show you something sharper.
(Just as the tower said that, a saw activates and it cuts through a log.)
Phineas: I think there may be something wrong with the Tower. I'm taking suggestions here.
(Ferb kicks off his shoes then uses his feet to untie himself. He does the same thing to release Phineas.)
Phineas: Okay, dude, don't show off.
(The boys jump off the log just before the saw cuts it in half.)
(Song: "Breakin' Out")
♪ I used to get stuck on the simplest of things ♪
♪ I never tried flying or spreading my wings ♪
♪ What I want to convey is that I'm getting away ♪
♪ 'Cause tonight I'm breaking out! (He's breaking out) ♪
♪ I went from park to neutral ♪
♪ Now I'm shifting to drive ♪
♪ 'Cause you gotta depart ♪
♪ If you want to arrive ♪
♪ No more biding my time ♪
♪ With these eternal rhymes ♪
♪ 'Cause tonight I'm breaking out! ♪
♪ (I'm breaking out) ♪
♪ From the things that were holding me back ♪
♪ (I'm breaking out) ♪
♪ In every wall if you look there's a crack ♪
♪ (I'm breaking out) ♪
♪ In the end that's what life's all about ♪
♪ When the wall's closing in ♪
♪ You know it's time to begin ♪
♪ Breaking out! ♪
(Backyard; the timer first shows 00:25, and then 00:24. Baljeet's now about to put one of Candace's hands into a bowl of water.)
Baljeet: Oh, my gosh! It is almost time.
Isabella: (placing objects between Candace's toes) What if they can't get out?
Buford: (drawing an eye on the sticky note) How come you guys didn't tell me about this before?
Candace: Ma-ma-ma-ma-ma.
(Just then, Phineas and Ferb finally escaped the tower by tunneling themselves out of it.)
Phineas: Made it. Boy! That was close.
(cheering)
(The timer shows that Phineas and Ferb escaped the tower with 17 seconds remaining.)
Baljeet: Was it scary?
Isabella: Was it hard?
Buford: Do I still get to smash the tower?
Tower: I ain't done with you yet. (activates a force field around its lower half)
Buford: Wow! I thought I had a bad attitude.

(Cuts to D.E.I. where Perry exits out of a cab. Minutes later, he enters Doofenshmirtz's apartment, runs towards the Rude-inator, and plugs up the ray with a cork. He then makes a dramatic leap off of the -inator and leaves the building on his hang-glider.)
(City Hall; Roger is continuing his tirade, much to Doofenshmirtz's amusement.)
Audience: Recall! Recall!
Roger: ...and so's your sister!
Doofenshmirtz: Wow! Such rudeness. This is working better than I ever imagined.
Roger: Miss High-and-Mighty English Manners Person, I have got one thing to say to you. And only one thing. That's some...
(He and the ambassador starts laughing)
Roger: ...show we just put on, isn't it, Madam Mayor?
Doofenshmirtz: What the...
Ambassador: You see, your wonderful Mayor and I agreed in the limousine to put on this little play for your edification.
(audience applauds)
Doofenshmirtz: (pushing button on remote repeatedly) No, no, no, no.
(At D.E.I., the Rude-inator explodes due to the plug)
(City Hall; the ambassador's speech continues)
Ambassador: Indeed, what would we be without manners?
Audience: Four more years. Four more years.
Doofenshmirtz: (pause) Curse you, Perry the Platypus. I didn't even get my popcorn. (realizes) Wait. If they were faking it, what did my ray hit?

(Backyard; Phineas and Ferb are trapped inside a dome.)
Tower: Ooh, it looks like you two losers are still trapped. Might as well change your address, 'cause you're gonna be receiving your pension in here. Oopsie, activated my vacuum circuits. You dummies don't need air, do you? (blows raspberry)
Phineas: I'm feeling such an odd mixture of pride and mortal terror.
Buford: Don't worry, I'll get you out in just a sec.
(Isabella and Baljeet back away then Buford bangs the mallet on the dome... with no success.)
Buford: You guys are on your own.
Phineas: Well, thanks for trying I guess.
Buford: No problem. What are friends for?
Tower: Friends? I have been programmed to trap you and your friends.
Phineas: Oh, yeah!
(The tower raises the dome then lowers it around Phineas, Ferb, and their friends.)
Baljeet: Do me a favor. Next time you wanna make a fiendishly clever computer-controlled contraption, call one of your other friends.
Phineas: Hey! That's it. (at the tower) Tower. You were programmed to trap Ferb and me and our friends. But we've got friends all over Danville.
Tower: Is that so?
(The tower raises the dome then lowers it around Danville. Camera then pans to a smug Phineas.)
Phineas: In fact, we have friends all over the Tri-State Area.
Tower: Well, aren't we popular?
(The tower raises the dome then lowers it around the Tri-State Area.)
Ferb: Plus there was that small matter of circumnavigating the globe.
Phineas: You're right. Tokyo, Paris, Nepal. We have friends all over the Earth.
Tower: Look at me, I have got friends all over the Earth. All right then.
(The tower covers the Earth with the dome.)
Phineas: In fact, we even have an alien friend named Meap.
(Ferb holds up a picture of Meap)
Phineas: He is from another planet. So, really, we have friends all over the galaxy.
Tower: A small matter for one such as me.
(The tower leaves the backyard; the camera then pans to the Milky Way Galaxy)
Tower: You will never escape. Never!
(The tower covers the entire galaxy with the dome. Back in the backyard, Baljeet, Isabella, and Buford walks away.)
Baljeet: That works for me.
Buford: Well, they only make mallets so big.
Isabella: See ya.
Phineas: So, the entire galaxy. (grins) That enough elbow room for ya?
Ferb: Well, for today.
(Meanwhile, alien spaceships finally get to the Milky Way...)
Alien: At last, after two millennia, we finally reached the Milky Way Galaxy. Battle stations! We begin our assault in three, two... Oh!
(All of the space ships hit the dome.)
Alien: Uh, anybody got a mallet?



(Scene opens up in the senior lodge)
Isabella: Thanks for helping me set up for the Latke Festival this year, guys! It'll really go a long way toward helping me get that Golden Years Assistant patch.
(Nana Shapiro blows her nose)
Phineas: Hi, Nana Shapiro.
Nana Shapiro: Can't wait for the latkes, darling. Nobody's had a bite to eat all day!
Isabella: We can start cooking as soon as Baljeet gets back with the potatoes.
Baljeet: No! No, you cannot! We looked all over the place, but there are no potatoes in the entire Tri-State Area!
Buford: And I'm down to my last potato chip! Better make this bad boy last...
Isabella: What am I going to do? Have you ever seen senior citizens riot? It's like a slow gray tornado of canes and false teeth!
Phineas: Buford, let me see that potato chip. Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! We're gonna use the DNA in this potato chip to clone our own potatoes! Hey, where's Perry?

(In Agent P's lair...)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P! We recently learned that Doofenshmirtz has fallen behind on his electrical bills. This seems odd considering his generous alimony package. His ex-wife, Charlene, is loaded! And, I might add, quite a handsome woman. (Perry stares in boredom) No, not, not that I've given that a great deal of thought. (clears throat) Investigate at once. Monogram out!
(Perry salutes, then blasts out of the lair in a rocket)

(In the Flynn-Fletcher house...)
Candace: Summer is boring! I am so-oh-oh-oh bored...
Linda: Why don't you call Jeremy?
Candace: He's working.
Linda: What about Stacy?
Candace: Grounded.
Linda: Jenny?
Candace: Protesting.
Linda: (flatly) What about busting your brothers?
Candace: Well, it's nice of you to take an interest, but they're not even in the backyard.
Linda: Well, you can't sit inside on a gorgeous day like today. So, Missy, grab that pink bike! We're gonna get out and about!
Candace: I don't think so.
Linda: Oh, come on, It'll be fun. (drags Candace by the arm)
Candace: Whoo-hoo, hooray.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry lands, slips on a banana peel and lands in a stockade)
Doofenshmirtz: (laughs) So, Perry the Platypus, do you like your trap? It's called the stocks! I read about it in this book, Ten Greatest Historical Traps of All Time. Look, it's a pop-up! (shows a pop-up bear trap) It also came with this bonus pamphlet, The Ten Greatest Historical Armies of All Time. And according to this, the Spartan Army was fierce, unstoppable, and followed every order without hesitation. Which is why I got this! (leave, emerges in Spartan General costume) Huh? It's a Spartan General costume. Yeah, it must have been...warmer in Ancient Greece. (pause) Anyway, once the Spartan Army sees me in this, they'll obey my every command! And help me take over the Tri-State Area! And how will I acquire the Spartan Army, gone lo these many millennia? With my Historical-Army-Retrieve-inator! I-it's potato-powered because I spent this month's alimony check on my last inator. You remember that, the Made-of-Gold-inator. And you know, I wore out three pairs of shoes buying up all these potatoes, but...on the good side, it smells like French fries in here.

(Scene shifts back to the senior lodge)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, behold the wonder that is the Spudsalot! Buford, the potato sample.
(Buford gives Phineas his chip and Phineas puts it in the compartment. The chip is scanned)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb, start her up.
(Ferb drives the Spudsalot around the lawn, zapping the ground making holes with potatoes in them)
Phineas: It's working!
Isabella: Oh, thank goodness! Now I can... Uh, Phineas, those potatoes have eyes.
Baljeet: All potatoes have eyes.
Isabella: Yeah, but these eyes blink!
(The potatoes have eyes on them and are staring at Isabella)
Phineas: Buford, you didn't put that chip in your mouth, did you?
Buford: And if I did, would that be...actinable?
Phineas: I think the DNA from Buford's saliva must have combined with the potato's DNA to make some sort of... (the potatoes stand on their own) Buford potato hybrid! Let's get outta here!
(The kids run over to the Spudsalot and watch the potato gremlins run)
Buford: Oh, look at the little guys, they're like little bullies! I am both proud and ready to soil my pants in terror.
Potato Gremlin: I like my tacos spicy.
Phineas: We should probably do something about them before they do, um, whatever...mutant Buford potatoes would do.
Isabella: But what about the party?
Phineas: Right! Baljeet, you and Buford go stall the seniors while the rest of us simultaneously round up the spud spawn. Hey, wait. Ferb, isn't "simultaneously" on our list of "S" words seldom used by kids?
(Ferb crosses out the word "simultaneously" on the said list)
Phineas: Awesome!
(Scene shifts to Linda and Candace on bikes)
Linda: See? Isn't this fun?
Candace: (not so thrilled) Thrilling. (hears growling) What?
(The potato gremlins go by, followed by Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella on the Spudsalot)
Candace: Mom, look! Potato, uh, gremlins! And Phineas and Ferb!
Linda: (turns her head to see a carrot juice truck go by) "Potato gremlins"? Candace, are you okay?
Candace: (Smiling) Never better. Come on, Mom, let's step it up! (takes off)
Linda: I'm glad you're finally getting in the spirit.

(Back at D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: And now, to summon the Spartan Army! (fires up the inator) Ooh! Here they come! Here they come! They're coming!
(The army is summoned, but it's actually a Mongol Army)
Mongol Army: Huh?
Doofenshmirtz: Ha-ha! What, wait, what? A Mongol army? Really? Huh, I must have had the dial set for..."Hun". Oh, well, you don't look a gift horde in the mouth, so...hello! Hi there, me, yeah. Welcome to the future, my ruthless Mongol Army. I realize you can't understand what I'm saying, and you're probably confused a bit by the Spartan General's uniform, uh, but together, we will rule the Tri-State Area...
(The Mongols yell and run out, trampling Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Ow! Hey, what are you... (notices the Mongols messing up the kitchen) Oh, you're hungry! I guess it has been 1,200 years since you've eaten. Well I suppose we could call out... (the Mongols trample him again and bust through the wall) Oh, you ruined my helmet. Now I've gotta get a new costum... Wait a second, that's it! I'm in the wrong outfit! All I have to do is hit the costume shop, then round up my Mongols, and the Tri-State Area will be mine! (runs off laughing)

(Back at the senior lodge...)
Senior citizens: We want latkes! We want latkes! We want latkes!
Old man 1: Hey! Where's my nosh?
Old man 2: I don't have to put up with this. I'm part of the greatest generation!
Baljeet: Buford, what are we going to do? Phineas wants us to stall. We gotta think of something!
Buford: Uh...wait a minute. I got an idea. (holds up a sock puppet, in high voice) Hello, folks! I'm Mr. Sock! Hey! Who turned out the lights? (Buford draws eyes on the puppet) Thanks!
(Pause)
Old lady: You stink!
Buford: (As Mr. Sock) That wasn't very nice!
(Baljeet holds up a sock puppet)
Baljeet: (high voice) Technically, we are socks.
Buford: (As Mr. Sock) Hey, Mr. Other Sock! What are you doing here?
Baljeet: (As Mr. Other Sock) Just looking!
Buford: (As Mr. Sock) For what?
Baljeet: (As Mr. Other Sock) My sole mate!
(they laugh)
Old woman 1: You both stink!
Baljeet: I think we have to take it up a notch.
(Buford shuts the windows and Baljeet turns off the lights.)
(Song: Frenemies)
Buford/Baljeet: ♪ We look good in hats ♪
♪ Long tails and spats ♪
♪ When we hit the town together, baby, we know where it's ats ♪
Baljeet: You are pluralizing "at"?
Buford: Work with me, brain boy.
(Downtown, the potato gremlins start to cause havoc)
Phineas: Well, this is a mess.
Isabella: How are we going to round them all up?
(Ferb holds up two hoses)
Phineas: Yes! If we reverse the backup engine on the Spudsalot and attach those hoses, we can suck the potatoes into that soothing hot tub we built into the bulkhead.
Isabella: Hot tub?! Why on earth would you build a hot tub on this thing?
Phineas: I'd like to think the real question is, why wouldn't we? (attaches the hoses) Time to round up some spuds.
(Scene shifts back to the senior lodge)
Buford/Baljeet: ♪ If I were dangling from a ledge he'd ♪
♪ Surely save me with a wedgie ♪
Baljeet: ♪ I'm smart, perhaps a bit refined ♪
Buford: ♪ And I'm a bit more edgy.
Buford/Baljeet: ♪ 'Cause we're frenemies ♪
♪ We like disliking one another ♪
♪ Yes, we're frenemies ♪
♪ He's like my least favorite brother ♪
(Isabella is trying to keep a hose attached)
Isabella: Uh-oh!
Potato Gremlin: I like my tacos spicy!
Isabella: Pull up alongside! (proceeds to suck up the potatoes) I got three more. How're we doing?
Potato Gremlin: Cannonball!
Phineas: It's working! YEE-HAW!!!

(The Mongols rush out of D.E.I, the potato gremlins stop)
Potato Gremlin: Spicy.
(Both groups stare at each other, the potato gremlins yell)
Mongols: French fry!
(The potato gremlins scream and run away as the Mongols chase them)
Potato Gremlin: Spicy!
Mongols: French fry!
Potato Gremlin: Spicy!
Isabella: Wow, Buford had Mongolian barbecue for breakfast?
Phineas: I don't think those are ours.
(They rush off, Doofenshmirtz comes out of D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Costume shop!
Phineas: Follow that horde!
Candace: Ha-ha! We've finally caught up to 'em! Mom, keep up!
Linda: (panting) Wait...up...Candace.
Candace: But they're right around the corner!
Linda: I'm not...as young...as I used to be! (stops pedaling)
Candace: Fine!
(She throws a lasso of sausages around Linda's handlebar and drags her)
Candace: (mocking) "I'm not as young as I used to be."
Linda: WHOAAAAA!

(Scene shifts to the costume shop)
Salesclerk: One Genghis Khan costume. Will that be cash or credit?
Doofenshmirtz: I'm kind of low on funds right now. (shows potatoes) Do you take potatoes in trade?

(Back to the senior lodge)
Baljeet: ♪ I like complex calculations ♪
Buford: ♪ I like physical confrontations ♪
Buford/Baljeet: ♪ We both have our roles, this is a symbiotic relation...ship ♪
♪ 'Cause we're frenemies ♪
♪ We like disliking one another ♪
♪ Yes, we're frenemies ♪
♪ He's like my least favorite brother ♪
♪ You and I, we're not enemies or friends ♪
♪ We're just frenemies to the end! ♪
(The Mongols and potato gremlins bash through the wall as the senior citizens applaud. Just as the Spudsalot pulls up, the Mongols begin to fight the potato gremlins just as Doofenshmirtz, dressed as Genghis Khan, barges in.)
Doofenshmirtz: Stop! My brothers! And...others. Uh, gaze at last, upon my appropriately Mongolian military regalia and know that you must now obey my every command!
Isabella: Oh, no! The Latke Festival is ruined.
(Candace pulls up followed by Linda with newspaper in her face)
Candace: Ha, ha, ha! Mom! Mom! Potato gremlins! (closes eyes and points) And...others! Look!
Linda: I'm trying, honey! These classifieds just go on and on. (tries to removes the excessive newspapers)

(Back at D.E.I., Perry manages to resist the stockade and runs over to the Historical-Army-Retrieve-inator. He flips it around and it fires a ray. Perry parachutes out of the building to safety.)

(Scene shifts back to the senior lodge)
Doofenshmirtz: Now, we can rule the Tri-State...
(The ray hits Doofenshmirtz and the Mongols, they disappear along with the potato gremlins and the Spudsalot)
Linda: (gets the last newspaper off) Ooh, coupon! (to Candace) Now, what am I looking at?
Candace: But...but...but...
Linda: I think you had enough fun for today. (takes Candace by the arm)
Candace: Noooooo!!!
(Linda drags an upset and deadpanned Candace out of the cafeteria)
Isabella: Oh, Nana, I'm sorry we ruined the festival.
Nana Shapiro: Ruined? Ha! That was the best time we've had since they cancelled Three-Bean-Salad Tuesdays. The floor show was fantastic!
Isabella: Really?
Nana Shapiro: The ending was a bit out there, but trust me, they had us at sock puppets!
Buford: Form a line, people. Form a line.
Phineas: Well, it's too bad we couldn't get the potatoes for the latkes. But I'd say everything worked out fine. (Perry arrives) What's Perry doing in a pillory?
Ferb: Actually, those are stocks; a pillory forces the wearer to remain upright, exposing them to poking and prodding from passers-by.
Phineas: Wow; I'd expect that kind of esoteric knowledge to come from someone a little older, 50 or 60. Or perhaps, a septuagenarian.
(Ferb crosses off the word "septuagenarian" in the list of S words. Phineas winks, points, and makes a clicking noise.)

End credits
(Somewhere in Mongolia...)
Archeologist: This is it. No one has seen this for a thousand years. (brushes off a legend and blows on it) The legend tells of an epic battle between the Mongol Army and... potato gremlin creatures, while a, uh, pharmacist from the future worked in vain to return to his time, crying out, "Curse you, Perry the Platypus"?
(The archeologist's companion leaves)
Archeologist: I swear! I majored this in college.



(Scene opens in the backyard at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Lawrence: Goodbye boys, have a great day, I'm off to work.
Phineas: Goodbye dad, have fun buying from auctions and private sales performing minor refurbishments to the purchase items, marking up the price and then selling them to your customers!
Ferb: (To the camera) Our dad sells antiques.
Phineas: You know Ferb, it's strange how we wave our hands when we say goodbye. It seems so arbitrary. Why don't people jump up and down or stick out their tongues, or slap their thighs?
(Ferb makes a gesture)
Phineas: Well, if by that you mean we should create a whole new form of communication, then I couldn't agree more! That was some nice gesturing, Ferb. Do some more!
(Ferb does more gestures)
Phineas: Ah. I...know...what...we're...going...to do...spatula! Oh, today...I really should have known that from the context.
(Ferb does more gestures)
Phineas: Oh, here's another one! Hey...where's...spatula! Oh, context again...

(Cut to Perry walking into the bathroom, presses a red O.W.C.A. button, and Major Monogram is shown in the mirror.)
Major Monogram: Ah Agent P. Sorry I'm running a little late this morning. Our satellites haven't picked up any Inator activity coming from Doofenshmirtz, but that's no indication that he isn't up to something. We want you to get down there and have a little look-see. Good hunting Agent P.
(Perry runs out and Monogram puts on aftershave and then screams in horror.)

(Cut to the boys in the backyard writing on whiteboard while Candace looks on from inside the house)
Phineas: Finally when someone sneezes rather than say gesundheit, just play flugelhorn and give him your left shoe. I think we nailed down the non-verbal cues. Now let's look at the syntax!
Linda: Candace? What's wrong, honey?
Candace: Mom, they're doing stuff out there!
Linda: (looks at the boys) Candace, they're just writing on a whiteboard.
Candace: Yes, that's it, they're plotting. And you know what that leads to. Implementing-guh!
Linda: Candace, you need to lighten up a little. Take it easy. Do you know what I do to relax?
Candace: You eat some pie and then laid down on that old sensory deprivation tank we keep in the basement.
Linda: That's right! Would you like to try it?
Candace: Um, I'm gonna go with no, but thank you.
Linda: Well you should still try to relax.
Candace: Mom, I don't need to relax, I need to bust Phineas and Ferb.
Linda: Well listen sweetie, you said so yourself, they're just plotting, right? That gives you plenty of time to go to the mall before they start implementing-guh. (makes hand gestures)
Candace: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense! Maybe—Hey, wait a second, are you making fun of me?
Linda: Maybe just a little. (leaves)
Candace: She's right, I probably have plenty of time to go to the mall!
(Cut to backyard)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb, let's start implementing!

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry flies in. Doofenshmirtz and Norm are standing there.)
Doofenshmirtz: (adjusting something on Norm's back) Just one more bolt right behind- (Perry♪) So, Perry the Platypus, we meet again! But this time, the advantage is mine... (to Norm) Hey, what are you waiting for Norm, we rehearsed this like a thousand times! I say "Ah, Perry the Platypus, we meet again, only this time the advantage is mine", you go and get him!
Norm: Going and getting!
Doofenshmirtz: (writing) Note to self, say the --- for replacing Norm's head. (Norm captures Perry in a bag) Okay, much better (to Perry) this is a good look for you!

(Cut to backyard, Isabella enter to find Phineas and Ferb with Baljeet and Buford.)
Isabella: Hi guys. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Erb-Ferb Atin-Lerb!
Isabella: Oh, creating a whole new form of communication today, are we?
Phineas: Yeah, what do you think?
Isabella: Sounds fun! What do you call it?
Phineas: Ferb Latin! Where you take the first letter of every word, move it to the end, and then you say erb! So Ferb becomes erb-ferb, and Latin becomes atin-lerb! Two letter words stay the same, like or stays or. All the fun of Pig Latin, and it's safe for vegetarians to use!
Isabella: Oh, Phineas, I think your new language is onderful-werb!
Phineas: By Jove, I think she's got it! But there's also a lot of non-verbal cues! For example, if you wanna say okay, you reach for the sky!
Buford: Yeah! And when you're hungry, you crack your knuckles! (cracks knuckles) Oh, baby, that's good...
Phineas: And if you smell something bad, you do jazz hands!
Baljeet: (to Buford) Stop looking at me, I'm not going to do jazz hands! Even though you have totally earned it...
Isabella: How do you say goodbye?
Phineas: When you say goodbye, you blow a raspberry! (blows a raspberry) Let's all do it!
(Everyone starts blowing raspberries, including Irving who only pops his head a moment. After a while, they stop and Phineas chuckles and sighs. Then there's a long pause and they all start again.)

(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
Doofenshmirtz: I bet you're wondering where my Inator is, right? C'mon, guess? Guess, no? No? Can I get a play-Oh alright ergh alright. Don't play. It's Norm!
Norm: Let's hope there's no self-destruct button on this one!
Doofenshmirtz: You've always had one, Norm. I just never told you where it was so you wouldn't pick at it!
(Norm's eyes grow bigger and his mouth falls off)
Doofenshmirtz: And stop interrupting me! Anyway, I've done a lot of research for the past... you know, few hours... and I, and I found that most people will believe anything they read! And I know it's true, 'cause you know... I read it online somewhere. So, my new weapon to take over the Tri-State Area is... propaganda!
Norm: Propaganda consists of messages that dishonestly attempt to influence the attitude of a community!
Doofenshmirtz: Thanks for that, Mr. Norm-It-All. I've installed a switch back here that prints out propaganda leaflets. All I have to do is speak my evil messages into this microphone, err let's see... eh, "slap yourself"! Push this button and, whatever I say (presses button and leaflet comes out) comes printed out on a leaflet. It's gonna work! I'm using a very convincing font. It's bold and it has a lot of serifs!
Norm: Serifs are semi-structural details that...
Doofenshmirtz: (cuts off Norm) Oh, for crying out loud, Norm! Listen, here's a buck, why don't you go get out of here and get a haircut or something!
Norm: Out I go! (Going with Perry still in hand)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, Norm, take the dollar and leave the platypus.(He hands Norm the dollar, who puts Perry on the floor then walks out right through the wall) And when you come back use the door! (to Perry) He gets that from you, you know. Anyway, my plan is to fly Norm all over the Tri-State Area and drop leaflets, then everyone will do my bidding!
(Doofenshmirtz looks at the leaflet and slaps himself)
Doofenshmirtz: Man, that really is a convincing font.

(Cut to Phineas and Ferb and their gang walking to an ice cream stand)
Ice cream guy: Hi, kids, what'll it be?
Phineas: Ocolate-Cherb.
Isabella: Awberry-Strerb.
Baljeet: Anilla-Verb.
Buford: Emon-Lerb.
Ferb: Erry-Cherb.
Ice cream guy: Are you kids from outta town?
Phineas: No no no, we're speaking Ferb Latin! You move the first letter to the end of the word then add erb! One and two letter words stay the same.
Ice cream guy: Oh, I get it! Ocolate-Cherb is chocolate, and anilla-verb is vanilla!
Random Woman: Ooh, at's-therb ute-cerb.
(The kids leaves with their ice creams while blowing raspberries)
Random Woman: Did..that mean goodbye?
Ice cream guy: I'm gonna borrow it.
(Cut to Candace at the mall)
Woman: Are you having trouble relaxing?
Candace: A little...
Woman: Try our new liquid massage. This isn't your mother's sensory deprivation tank. A few minutes in here will change your world!
Candace: Alright, strap me in!
(Cut to Norm having a haircut)
Barber 1: Ice-nerb adge-berb.
Customer: Es-yerb it is.
Norm: Hey, what's that language they're speaking?
Barber 2: That is Ferb Latin!
Norm: I like it! And intend to use it whenever I can. Tell me how it works.

(Cut to the gang walking down the street. They all click their tongues then blow raspberries to someone. They approach a TV news-anchor and a cameraman.)
News-anchor: Hey, I hear you kids have invented a new language. Tell us all about it!
Phineas: Sure, follow me!
(Song: "Ferb Latin")
Phineas: ♪ You take the first letter of every word ♪
♪ You move it to the end and then say '-erb' ♪
♪ It's like we're adding a phonetic caboose to it ♪
♪ Don't get confused, just get used to it ♪
Isabella: ♪ Whenever someone sneezes, ♪
♪ You no longer say "bless you" ♪
♪ Instead you play a flugelhorn ♪
♪ And give him your left shoe ♪
Phineas, Isabella: ♪ Whenever you meet someone on the street ♪
♪ Don't shake their hand, just stomp your feet ♪
♪ And your conversation won't be complete ♪
♪ Until you give him a big slab of meat ♪
Isabella: ♪ You take the first letter of every word ♪
♪ You move it to the end and then say "-erb" ♪
♪ It's like we're adding a phonetica boost to it ♪
♪ Don't get confused, just get used to it ♪
Phineas: ♪ Whenever someone sneezes, ♪
♪ You no longer say "bless you" ♪
♪ Instead you play a flugelhorn ♪
♪ And give him your left shoe ♪
Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Baljeet, Buford: ♪ So those are the rules and we hope you enjoy them ♪
♪ We're sure to be adding a few ♪
♪ As new customs evolve, well, we hope you employ them ♪
♪ But for right now here's what you should do... ♪
Isabella: ♪ You take the first letter of every word ♪
♪ You move it to the end and then say "-erb" ♪
♪ It's like we're adding a phonetica boost to it ♪
♪ Don't get confused, just get used to it ♪
Phineas: ♪ Whenever someone sneezes, ♪
♪ You no longer say "bless you" ♪
♪ Instead you play a flugelhorn ♪
♪ And give him your left shoe ♪
Baljeet, Buford: ♪ Whenever you meet someone on the street ♪
♪ Don't shake their hand, just stomp your feet ♪
♪ And your conversation won't be complete ♪
♪ Until you give him a big slab of meat ♪
(Note: Lines in blue are sung simultaneously.)

(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Norm: (Norm uses the door but smashes through the door and causes damage to the walls) I'm ack-berb!
Doofenshmirtz: (Annoyed that Norm still caused damage using the door) Oh, great. Nice haircut, by the way. Where's my change?
(Norm pours dozens of coins out of his mouth)
Doofenshmirtz: You're a weird robot, Norm.
Norm: Ank-therb ou-yerb!
Doofenshmirtz: What is that, Swedish? You better not be broken, Norm. You still need to fly around the city distributing leaflets.
(Doofenshmirtz starts rewiring Norm's cables)
Doofenshmirtz: Well as long as you still remember the code for take-off...
Norm: Aunch-lerb?
Doofenshmirtz: No, it's not "aunch-lerb", talk normal. It's launch, launch!
(Norm takes off)
Doofenshmirtz: NO, WAIT NOT YET! AAAAH!
(Perry manages to get himself out of the bag and leaves)

(Cut to mall)
(Woman helps Candace out of the tank)
Candace: Hmm, I must have fallen asleep... Wow, am I relaxed...I wonder how long I was out?
(Candace walks up to a woman)
Candace: Excuse me, what time is it?
Woman: Ee-threrb enty-twerb.
Candace: Uh, what?
Woman: Ee-threrb enty-twerb.
Candace: My ears must be over-relaxed.
(Candace walks outside to find everyone speaking Ferb Latin)
Candace: What? (reading street sign) Ain-merb reet-sterb?
(A man walks up)
Man: Cuse-exerb e-merb?
Candace: Excuse me?
Man: Ublic-perb estroom-rerb?
Candace: I'm sorry, I no speak-erb your lang-werb...
Man: Azz-jerb ands-herb? I ell-smerb?
(The man walks away crying)
Candace: What is happening here? All I did was go like (does jazz hands)
(A kid blows a raspberry and a girl cracks her knuckles)
Candace: What is this? I am losing it!
(Candace runs around a building to find a TV)
News-anchor: (on TV) And how did this latest cultural craze get started? We talked to the creators.
Candace: This whole town has gone crazy!
Phineas: (on TV) Ferb Latin isn't just a language, it's a way of life!
Candace: Ferb Latin? I should have known Phineas and Ferb were behind this! (to the boys on TV) You are so usted-berb!
(Candace dials a number and Linda picks up her phone while lying in the tank)
Linda: What is it Candace? (Candace asks something) No, I don't know what Ferb Latin is. (sighs) Give me fifteen minutes.
Lawrence: (from inside the tank) Uh, dear, as long as you're getting up, could you get me some more pie?

(Cut to Doofenshmirtz and Norm flying all over the city)
Doofenshmirtz: Not yet, you hunk of junk! (sees Perry unloading Norm's fuel) Perry the Platypus, how did you get- (Perry jumps off and opens his parachute) Curse you, Perry the Platypus!!
Norm: We're oing-gerb own-derb!
Doofenshmirtz: Knock it off with the babble talk, I can't stand it! (Doofenshmirtz stomps down several times on the button) TALK NORMAL!
(Leaflets are printed out with "Talk Normal" written on them) Oh, great. That was not the message I wanted to deliver to the people of the Tri-State Area! (A couple catches one)
Man: (reading the leaflet) "Talk normal". Huh.
Woman: Yeah, okay, I'm convinced.

(Cut to Candace dragging Linda)
Candace: Mom mom mom! Come with me. Phineas and Ferb created a new language and everybody's speaking it, and now we can't understand anybody! Watch this! What time is it?
Woman: Twenty minutes since the last time you asked me.
Candace: What? You there! Talk!
Man: I don't think we have anything to say to each other! Not after the... jazz hands!
(Walks away crying)
Linda: Wow, he must really hate jazz hands.
Candace: I don't get it! Everybody was blowing raspberries and speaking this crazy language!
Linda: Look who's here.
(They notice the boys and walks up to them)
Candace: PHINEAS AND FERB! Alright, you two, what do you have to say for yourself?
(Phineas is about to speak, but he catches a leaflet and reads it)
Phineas: Look at that! Now, that's a convincing font.
Candace: Mom...they...I mean...em...
Linda: You remember that whole stress relief thing I mentioned earlier? You might wanna look into that.

(Cut to Norm and Doofenshmirtz, who have crashed into the road.)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, that could've gone better.
(As Norm prints out one more leaflet, Doofenshmirtz catches it, reads it and slaps himself again)
Doofenshmirtz: Not funny, Norm.

End Credits
(The gang blows raspberries to someone. They approach a TV news-anchor and a cameraman.)
News-anchor: Hey, I hear you kids have invented a new language. Tell us all about it!
Phineas: Sure, follow me!
(Song: "Ferb Latin")
Phineas: ♪ You take the first letter of every word ♪
♪ You move it to the end and then say '-erb' ♪
♪ It's like we're adding a phonetic caboose to it ♪
♪ Don't get confused, just get used to it ♪
Isabella: ♪ You take the first letter of every word ♪
♪ You move it to the end and then say "-erb" ♪
♪ It's like we're adding a phonetica boost to it ♪
♪ Don't get confused, just get used to it ♪
Phineas: ♪ Whenever someone sneezes, ♪
♪ You no longer say "bless you" ♪
♪ Instead you play a flugelhorn ♪
♪ And give him your left shoe ♪
Baljeet, Buford: ♪ Whenever you meet someone on the street ♪
♪ Don't shake their hand, just stomp your feet ♪
♪ And your conversation won't be complete ♪
♪ Until you give him a big slab of meat ♪
(Note: Lines in blue are sung simultaneously.)



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Phineas: Ah, summer. Sunny, warm, some might say hot, it sure would be nice to cool off for a bit. Any ideas? (Ferb takes out a map of Antarctica) Well, while a visit to Antarctica does sound cool, I was thinking of a traditional family Christmas special.
Director: All right, people, let's move in. Move in! All right, lights, camera, sweaters. Can't have Christmas without sweaters! And... cue snow!
(Song: We Wish You A Merry Christmas (instrumental))
Man: (shakes box of fake snow)
Phineas: That's more like it! Hit it, fellas!
(camera zooming in)
Narrator: Ladies and gentlemen, it's the 12th annual Phineas and Ferb Family Christmas! Brought to you by Wintobreath toothpaste! Now with more inert ingredients. Tonight, celebrate the holidays with Phineas, Ferb, and the whole Flynn-Fletcher family! With Isabella! Buford and Baljeet! Famous singer Kelly Clarkson! And now your hosts: Phineas and Ferb!
Phineas: Happy holidays, everybody! Welcome to our family Christmas special. Come on in, put on a sweater, grab a hot cup of cocoa, and have a seat by one of those extras as we celebrate the holidays. (door knocking) Who could that be? (Ferb opens door)
Isabella: Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Why, it's Isabella!
Isabella: You know what I love best about this time of year?
Phineas: No, tell us!
Isabella: It's the music, like this little number: Let it Snow.
(Song: Let it Snow, Let it Snow, Let it Snow)
♪ La, la la la, la la la ♪
♪ La la la, la la la, la la la ♪
♪ Oh, the weather outside is frightful ♪
♪ But the fire is so delightful ♪
♪ And since we've no place to go ♪
♪ Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow! ♪
♪ It doesn't show signs of stopping ♪
♪ And I've bought some corn for popping ♪
♪ The lights are turned way down low ♪
♪ Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow! ♪
♪ When we finally kiss goodnight (Kiss goodnight) ♪
♪ How I'll hate going out in the storm (In the storm) ♪
♪ But if you'll really hold me tight (Hold me tight) ♪
♪ All the way home I'll be warm ♪
♪ Well, the fire is slowly dying ♪
♪ And, my dear, we're still good-bying ♪
♪ But as long as you love me so ♪
♪ Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow! ♪
♪ Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow! ♪
♪ (Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow) ♪
♪ Let it snow! ♪
Candace: (opens door) What is all this? (snow falls on her, and growls) Fake snow, fake house, and who are all these people?
Isabella: Extras!
Extra: Not me, I've got a speaking part. But it's just this line. So it's pretty much over now.
Candace: And where did you get those ugly sweaters?
Old Woman: (knitting a sweater) Hey!
Phineas: It's Christmas, Candace!
Candace: It's the middle of summer.
Phineas: Well, no sense waiting 'till the last minute.
Candace: Wait, (grabbing the "camera") are you guys taping this?
Phineas: Actually, we're live.
Candace: This is on TV right now?
Phineas: Yup.
Candace: (turns on TV) Ee-ee-ee-ee... (the TV echoes her giggle and line) I have to make a phone call. (runs off-screen)
Phineas: Candace Flynn, everyone! Up next is our good friend—Hey, where is Perry?
Major Monogram: I'm sorry, Agent P. Carl's an extra in some Christmas show, and I don't know what Doof is doing today. You know what, I'm just gonna send you over there blind. (salutes) Good luck.
(Perry salutes back)
♪ Perry! ♪
Candace: (behind the set) Mom, Phineas and Ferb are making Christmas in July. (looks over the side of the set)
Linda: (rummaging through her bag) Well, isn't that cute.
Candace: Do you happen to be standing near a television?
Linda: I think there's a whole wall of them behind me.
Candace: Would you turn around and look at the TVs?
Linda: Okay.
(TVs change to Wintobreath advertising)
Narrator: Tonight's special is brought to you by the good folks at Wintobreath toothpaste!
Linda: Oh, you're right, Candace. We do need toothpaste. Thanks for reminding me.
Candace: Oh, wait wait, no, aw!
Lawrence: Oh, how nice! A traditional Christmas special. As my Granddad used to say: "Lung me yellum reek and wits fulgey an'ool bool bay-a!!"
Isabella: What does that mean?
Lawrence: Well, hopefully something festive.
Candace: You too, Dad?
Lawrence: Merry Christmas, everybody!
Doofenshmirtz: (pauses broadcast) Wait, w-w-what's going on here? Is it Christmas already? What happened to fall? I'm totally unprepared. I-I got to get my yuletide on, and fast!
Isabella: What's wrong, Phineas? You don't look very happy for Christmas Eve.
Phineas: Everyone's come together for the holidays, but Perry's still not here.
Isabella: He knows it's not really Christmas, right?
Ferb: Every family Christmas special needs a little false drama.
Isabella: Ah!
(door knocking)
Phineas: Who could that be?
Ferb: (opens door)
Phineas: It's famous singer Kelly Clarkson!
(crowd cheering)
Kelly Clarkson: Happy holidays, everyone!
Isabella: Oh, Kelly Clarkson, can you sing us a song?
Kelly Clarkson: Oh, you guys don't wanna hear me sing. (all clamoring) Well, I don't really have anything prepared...
Phineas: Oh, that's too bad. Well, have a seat. We'll have someone else sing.
Kelly Clarkson: Oh, okay.
Doofenshmirtz: (singing to the tune of "We Wish You A Merry Christmas," muffled) ♪ Oh, Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, ♪
♪ Oh, righty tighty, lefty loosey ♪
♪ Oh, my decorations are almost done ♪
(Perry bursts in and sees a mistletoe thinking it's a trap; he tiptoes and rolls by it)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus! How noel-y of you! (shoots his trap wrapping Perry in wrapping paper; he reels the trap) For some reason, Christmas seemed to have snuck up on me this year, and I'm a bit behind on my shopping. But I have a solution: (Pulls tarp) The Transport-inator! (ominous music plays) To instantly transport me to the stores while everyone else is circling around looking for a parking spot. I-It's not exactly evil, but it's slightly unfair. Let the last minute shopping begin! (activates the Transport-inator; he disappears and the -inator fires a laser)
Phineas: Hey! Who's that coming down the chimney?
Baljeet: Aaaahhhh! (lands on the cardboard flame; he is wearing an elf costume) Oof!
Phineas, Isabella: Could it be?
Baljeet: Oh! I am sorry Phineas, I seem to have broken your fire.
Phineas: It's Baljeet! As long as you're here, how about a song?
Baljeet: Well, it was going to be a duet, but: (clears throat)
(Song: Good King Wenceslas)
♪ Good King Wenceslas looked out, on the Feast of Stephen ♪
Buford: Sorry I'm late! I was busy doing some rewrites.
Baljeet: Rewrites?
Buford: I've highlighted your parts; now sing along!
♪ Santa Claus and all his elves are making gifts for Buford! ♪
Baljeet: ♪ I don't think that's how it goes. ♪
Buford: ♪ Nobody's asking you, nerd! ♪
Baljeet: Buford! You're completely disrespecting this classic song. You're ignoring the historical context! King Wenceslas was a great man. You have no idea what this song is about!
Buford: I know all about this song!
♪ The words were by an English guy; the music's Scandinavian ♪
♪ Wenceslas was five-foot-six; he kept his face unshaven ♪
♪ Though just a duke throughout his life, he always ruled so justly ♪
♪ His kingly title was conferred upon him posthumously ♪
Baljeet: Well, I stand corrected. You seem to have a lot of information. But if you know so much about it, why do you not sing the original song?
Buford: I like my version better. It's about me!
♪ Buford should get lots of gifts every Christmas season ♪
♪ When I see presents just for me, it always is so pleasin' ♪
♪ That is why I changed the words, to make this song more edgy ♪
♪ If you don't like the way I sing, you'll get a Christmas wedgie! ♪
Baljeet: (laughs) Oh.
Kelly Clarkson: You know, if you guys want me to sing, I could certainly...
Phineas: No, sit down, relax. Don't worry about it.
Kelly Clarkson: Are you guys sure? 'Cause it wouldn't be...
Phineas: No, we wouldn't want you to have to work on Christmas Eve!
Kelly Clarkson: Oh... uh, okay. (sits next to the extra from earlier)
Extra: I had one line earlier.
Kelly Clarkson: And now you have two.
Extra: Ooh!
Doofenshmirtz: (in a supermarket checkout lane, loading his presents onto the counter) Whew! Hey, what's with the total lack of Christmas decorations this year? A-Are you guys just being lazy or what? (reaches to pick up his presents, but is hit by the Transport-inator's beam) Wait, wha-, wait, my packages! (Doofenshmirtz disappears from the checkout counter)
Cashier: (into intercom) Customer vaporization in aisle 4.
Doofenshmirtz: (back at D.E.I.; Perry has pressed the -inator's reverse button) A reverse button? Really? I guess you think you're pretty clever. (Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz, who reels him in with the wrapping paper shooter; Perry winds his wrapping paper around Doof's legs, tearing the paper and falling near a pile of fruitcakes. Perry uses his free tail to launch fruitcakes at Doofenshmirtz) Not fruitcake! (The first one misses; the second hits Doof in the mouth, and he falls down. The next three hit the Transport-inator, causing it to spark and activate. Perry jumps into the Transport-inator's beam and disappears) Now where did he go?
Phineas: Well, still no sign of Perry, but we're running out of time! Perhaps we should open our presents. (the beam enters the cabin's window and hits a present; Phineas opens that present to reveal Perry) Hey, look, everybody! It's Perry! We're all together after all. This is the best Christmas ever!
(Song: We Wish You A Merry Christmas)
All: ♪ We wish you a merry Christmas ♪
♪ We wish you a merry Christmas ♪
♪ We wish you a merry Christmas ♪
♪ And a happy New Year ♪
Phineas: ♪ We wish you the best day ever ♪
♪ And hope all your Christmas endeavors ♪
♪ Are super-fun, amazing, and clever ♪
♪ And that your New Year's rocks too ♪
Isabella: ♪ Oh, come tell me whatcha doin' ♪
♪ All my relatives just flew in ♪
♪ From Mexico and Jerusalem ♪
♪ For the holidays ♪
♪ Both Christmas trees and menorahs ♪
♪ It can be confusing for us ♪
♪ When we break into a chorus ♪
♪ Of "olé" (¡Olé!) and "oy vey" (Oy vey!) ♪
Major Monogram: ♪ Good missions I'll give ♪
♪ To Agents A through Z ♪
♪ Carl, get away from that punch bowl! ♪
♪ I'm saving that for me ♪
All: ♪ We wish you a Perry Christmas ♪
♪ We wish you a Perry Christmas ♪
♪ We wish you a Perry Christmas ♪
♪ And a (Gyururururu) New Year ♪
Baljeet: ♪ I wish for a calculator- ♪
♪ Slash-Hindi-English translator ♪
♪ To find a common denominator ♪
♪ In both of my tongues ♪
Buford: ♪ Good wedgies I'll give ♪
♪ To all of you nerds ♪
♪ That's how I say "Merry Christmas" ♪
♪ I ain't good with words ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I wish you would let me rule you ♪
♪ In evil I'm going to school you ♪
♪ I won't sugarcoat or fool you ♪
♪ Your New Year's looks grim ♪
All: ♪ We wish your every endeavor ♪
♪ Makes this the best Christmas ever ♪
♪ And we're all so glad that we have never ♪
♪ Mentioned figgy pudding... ♪
♪ A-ahh!!!! ♪
(the Transport-inator zaps all the Christmas decorations and extras out of the Flynn-Fletcher backyard and into D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ugh. How come the reverse switch works for Perry the Platypus, but not me?
Linda: Hey boys, I heard you were doing Christmas in July.
Candace: Yes, yes they were! And, and...it was actually really sweet.
Linda, Lawrence, Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Buford, Baljeet: Awww.
Doofenshmirtz: Wait. Aren't--Aren't you Kelly Clarkson?
Kelly Clarkson: Why yes, yes I am.
Doofenshmirtz: You're standing on my hand.
Kelly Clarkson: Oh! Sorry.
Doofenshmirtz: No, no, it was a huge honor. Hey, since you're here, you wanna sing a song?
Kelly Clarkson: Uh, you know, I would love to. (the Transport-inator begins to shake) Wait, what's that?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, that's my -inator. It's probably just gonna blow up.
Kelly Clarkson: (running away, followed by the extras) I'm outta here! (the -inator explodes; Kelly Clarkson glides away on a glider with her face on it)
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Platypus! And to a lesser extent, Kelly Clarkson, although I do love her work.

End Credits
(Song: Let it Snow, Let it Snow, Let it Snow)
Isabella: ♪ It doesn't show signs of stopping ♪
♪ And I've bought some corn for popping ♪
♪ The lights are turned way down low ♪
♪ Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow! ♪
♪ (La, la la la, la la la) A-a-ah... ♪
♪ (La la la, la la la, la la la) Let it snow! ♪
♪ (Let it snow) O-oh, o-o-o-o-o-oh... ♪
♪ (Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow!) Let it snow! ♪



(Scene opens up at night, then goes to daytime, showing the subtitles "27,000 BC".)
(Gerb chisels on a stone)
Phinabunk: Hmm? Ni. (Grinding) (Looks at another stone) Hmm? Ni. (Throws it in Bunka's mouth) Ah? Ni. (Camera pans to Bunka, who grinds another stone. A squirrel rolls by balancing on a nut) Gerb? (Gerb shows a stone) Ah! (Camera pans to the stone) Oh wha!
Isabelock: (enters yard) Mei Phinabunk! Whakka tuka'?
Phinabunk: Mei Isabelock, Gerb n mi maka wha.
Isabelock: Oh, a wha.
Boofgard: (While dragging Baljug in) Mei gah!
(Baljug laughs)
Phinabunk: Mei Boofgard n Baljug.
Boofgard: Whakka tuka'?
Isabelock: (angrily) Boofgard!
(Boofgard laughs nervously)
(Cut to an office showing Dan and Swampy in stop motion)
Swampy: Whoa, whoa, whoa. So—so they're just gonna be talking in "cave-talk"?
Dan: Yeah! I think Doofenshmirtz is just gonna grunt.
Swampy: Oh—How are people gonna know what's going on?
Dan: Oh—Periodically we're just gonna cut to you and me, just explaining it just like this in this sort of photo-animation.
Swampy: Wh—Why don't we just film it? Live action?
Dan: Nah, it's not the budget.
Swampy: Ah, yeah. How are the kids gonna know who we are?
(Text bubbles appear with arrows pointing to Dan and Swampy, showing their names)
Swampy: Oh! That's nice. Okay. But where's Perry?
Dan: (Prepares to write on the drawing board) Ah!
(Bunka is in his lair, wearing a skull helmet implied to be a fedora)
Monobrow: Meh ti bi bunga gunga. Unga gunga Doofengung gugga lunga.
(Gnarl swings next to Monogram, screeching and chattering loudly)
Monobrow: GNARL!
(Gnarl leaves)
Monobrow: Unga lunga alunga. Gunga lunga bleh ah...
(Monobrow waves Bunka away, who salutes and runs off. Monobrow slips on a banana peel as Gnarl swings by with a bunch of bananas screeching)

(A caveman pushes in a delivery of rock slabs for Phinabunk and Gerb)
Caveman: Ugga bugga bajunga ba googoo googa di wha?
Phinabunk: Ah. Ah gi ar.
Caveman: Eh.
(Lawrence gets ready to go hunting)
Da: Ah bu ga bu dar.
Mog: Ah bu ga bu dar. Dan doo par gu spar.
Da: Shank oo dar.
(Mog and Da sniff each others armpits)
Da: Bakoo ar!
Mog: Bakoo ar! (Mog unbends her back. She walks to a mirror and sees her hair) Chakka lakka! Can-tok? (Gets her staff) Igga raba oh.
Can-tok: Mog! Mog! Can-tok in charga?
Mog: Ah, Can-tok. Yar in charga. (Gives Can-tok the staff)
Can-tok: Ess!
Mog: Ah quag.
Can-tok: Ah quag, Mog! (Looks at the staff) Can-tok in charga. Ee-ee-ee-ee!
(Outside)
Can-tok: Phinabunk and Gerb! Can-tok in charga!
Phinabuk: Can-tok in charga? Du mhakka satellakkah?
(Can-tok growls. She walks into the house, slams the door and peeks out the window. She goes to the rock recliner and talks to Stacy via drumming on a hollow log)
(Stacy replies by playing a drum beat back)
(Song: Quirky Worky Song (Caveman Version))
♪ (Grunting) ♪
(Baljug, Isabelock and Boofgard salute, and chop a giant block, revealing a smaller block. Phinabunk tells them to make the wheel out of it, and Baljug, Isabelock and Boofgard salute. They make the shape, forming a hole in the stone)

♪ Bunkalunk Bunkalunk bunkalunka! ♪
(Doofenshmirtz laughs hysterically at water slowly dripping off a stalactite. This repeats till Bunka da Bunkaquan crashes through the wall)
Doofengung: A Bunkaquan?
(Bunka puts on his head gear)
Doofengung: Bunka da Bunkaquan?!
(Doofengung gestures that Bunka could have simply climbed the ladder to the open balcony instead of smashing in through the side. He then pulls a cord which drops a trap made from bone onto Bunka)
Doofengung: Ah, Bunka da Bunkaquan... bakka lakka!
(Backstory begins and a tetrapod with Doofengung's face climbs onto dry land, looks around, and goes back into the water)
Doofengung: Ah, Bunka da Bunkaquan...
(Doofengung grunts and gestures toward a cave painting depicting the famous evolution of man series. He gestures that he is the crouching figure and shows disdain for the upright figure, who happens to resemble Roger Doofenshmirtz. He imitates Roger standing upright and being a doof.)
Doofengung: Ama wrog?
(More grunting and gesturing and we see Caveman Roger Doofenshmirtz lounging in splendor eating grapes, being served a side of ribs by a blond cavewoman, and perhaps hosting a garden party. By contrast, Doofengung gestures to his decaying cave)
Doofengung: Uh? Blahh! (A piece of a stalactite breaks off) Uh? Blahh! Uh? Blahh! Uh? BLAHH!!!
(Back to Dan and Swampy's office)
Dan: You know what? I think you're right. This was a bad idea.
Swampy: No, no, no, no... This is starting to work. This is really good.
Dan: Really?
Swampy: Yeah. Get, get up, get up, get out of the way! Give me the pen. So Phinabunk and Gerb have already invented the wheel and are getting ready to show their friends...
(Phinabunk reveals a wheel-shaped rock)
Phinabunk: Ta-da!
Boofgard: (Scratching his head, confused) Ta-da?
Phinabunk: Ah, ta-da! (He hums as he rolls with his wheel. He stops at Boofgard and gets off) Ta-da!
(Boofgard picks up the wheel)
Phinabunk: Ah?
(Boofgard puts the wheel on Baljug)
Boofgard: Ta-da.
(Inside, Can-tok is still drumming on the hollow log. Phinabunk is seen through the window rolling with his wheel)
Can-tok: Oh! (Walks outside) Phinabunk and Gerb, gu bagga da da da!
(The kids, except Phinabunk and Boofgard, are seen rolling with their wheels)
Phinabunk: Mei, Can-tok, ti makka wha!
Can-tok: A wha?
(Boofgard hits himself on the head with his own wheel and laughs)
Boofgard: Du wha! (Laughs)
Can-tok: Phinabunk an Gerb, du go gunga busta! Mi tele Mog! (Calls out) Mog!
Phinabunk: (Points and commands each of the others, who are riding their own wheels) Da! Da! Da!
(The four children end up in a rectangular plan form)
Phinabunk: Hmmm, Gerb, tu kanga machia du kanga!
Baljug: Wa tu kanga?
Phinabunk: Gerb? (Gerb displays a small tablet inscribed with what appears to be a Humvee design)
Phinabunk: Ah! Tu kanga!
(At Bobbi's Hair Emporium)
Can-tok: Mog! Phinabunk and Gerb gunga bunga doo wha! Doo wha! Doo wha! (Pause) DOO WHAAAAAA!
Bobbi: A wha?
Mog: Ni Can-tok, lakka whakka.
Can-tok: (Growls)
Bobbi: Can-tok, uh, enthusilakkah.
Mog: Can-tok, bunka lunka.
(At Doofengung's lair),
Doofengung: Ah, Bunka da Bunkaquan. Eh. (Laughs) Ah rar! (Opens the curtains) Da may deh herayar! (Picks the Stick-Inator up) Ah? Eh? (Camera pans to Bunka) Ah! (Shows a stone drawing) Eh, Bunka da Bunkaquan. (Taps the stone drawing) Eh? Heh, eh? Heh?
(The stone drawing shows Doof's plan, as the characters in the drawing move)
(Cut back to Dan and Swampy)
Dan: Oh, so Doof's going to poke the mammoths with his Stick-inator and they'll stampede Roger and his friends away from their home, and Doof can live there.
Swampy: Now, wasn't that clear?
Dan: No.
Swampy: Well, then it's a good thing we're doing (Does a pose) this then.
(Cut to Can-tok)
Can-tok: Can-tok me in charga. Mog neega lunga Can-tok Mog. (Notices a Humvee. The camera zooms out of a wheel, switches to Gerb, who's driving, Phinabunk, Baljug, Isabelock as passengers, and Boofgard is running on its back wheel. As they ride, the kids shout)
Can-tok: Phinabunk and Gerb! (Runs after it. At a glacier he notices Jerabunk)
Jerabunk: Mei Can-tok.
Can-tok: Mei Jerabunk. (Giggles)
(The kids ride by Conk)
Conk: (Laughs) Phinabunk and Gerb! (The camera zooms out, noticing his foot stuck in the glacier) Ah! Bungah.
(At a jungle, Can-tok runs through the bushes, and comes out with Candace's hairstyle. She notices it, messes it up and continues running)
Can-tok: Ah!
(The kids are riding by a leafless tree with two vultures, a small one and a big one. The big vulture notices Can-tok, flies after her and grabs her. The vulture flies to the volcano, as the kids are shouting down below. Can-tok looks down at the Humvee, then at the Vulture. She hits it with the staff)
Can-tok: (Screams) (Lands on a tree, slides down it, breaking it's branches and slides down the volcano. As she stops, the rock on the staff is in the lava)
Can-tok: Huh?
(The kids below are still riding in the Humvee)
Can-tok: Oh! Phinabunk and Gerb! Can-tok busta Phinabunk and Gerb! (Picks up the staff, noticing steam billowing from the rock) Shtok smoke il lakka? (Grabs the steam and lets go of it) Ah?
Mog: Can-tok!
Can-tok: (Gasps) Mog! (Notices Mog, then the kids and the Humvee) Mog busta Phinabunk and Gerb! (Starts running) Mog! Mog!
(Cut to Doofengung)
Doofengung: (Laughs)
(Doofengung puts down a ladder, climbs it, and sticks his branch into a mammoth's butt. Instead of stampeding the house nearby, the mammoth growls, turns around and glares at Doofengung for several moments; Doofengung laughs sheepishly and runs off as the mammoths stampede after him)
(As for Can-tok, she catches up with Mog)
Can-tok: Mog! Phinabunk and Gerb makka du kanga!
Mog: Du kanga?
(Doofengung runs by, followed by the mammoths. Doofengung runs over the Humvee, but the mammoths destroy it)
Can-tok and Mog: (Coughing)
Can-tok: Mog, butta! (Notices that the Humvee is broken) Ni! (runs up to it) Ni, ni, ni, ni!
Phinabunk: Oh, mei, Mog.
Mog: Mei, Phinabunk, mei, Gerb.
Can-tok: Ni!!!
(Suddenly, the end of Can-tok's staff sparks and grows a flame on it)
Phinabunk: Wow. Can-tok make a foomfa!
Can-tok: Foomfa?
Mog: Can-tok makka foomfa!
Can-tok: Ah, Can-tok makka foomfa! (holds the staff high) Can-tok in charga.
(Meanwhile, the mammoths are still going after Doofengung. As they do, they destroy Doofengung's lair. Doofengung is then shown alone on the ground coughing)
Doofengung: Kooya, Bunka da Bunkaquan! (Seeing Bunka walking away) Aw, bunka!
(That night, everyone is around Can-tok's fire enjoying it)
Da: So, Can-tok makka foomfa.
Jerabunk: Eh, foomfa, kookalaka.
Can-tok: (laughing) Jerabunk.
Isabelock: Can-tok makka foomfa!
Baljug: (sees Bunka) Bakida, Bunkaquan!
(Now, we turn to Phinabunk and Gerb. As Phinabunk eats a marshmallow, Gerb speaks English)
Gerb: I guess we should wait until tomorrow before we tell them about our new language.
Phinabunk: Yes, yes we should.
(Scene shifts to Dan and Swampy one last time)
Dan: Eh, all right, I'll buy that, but it still feels like it's missing something.
(They think for a moment, then...)
Dan and Swampy: The song!
Dan: Okay, how about something like... ♪ Zupa, daya! Zupa, daya! ♪
Swampy: Do it again.
(As the song plays, Dan and Swampy and Phinabunk, Gerb and the gang sing and dance)
(Song: Zubada)
All: ♪ Zupa, daya! ♪
♪ Zupa, daya! ♪
♪ Zupa, daya! ♪
♪ Zupa, daya! ♪
♪ Zupa, daya! ♪
Isabelock/Caveside Girls: ♪ (Ooooh...) ♪
All: ♪ Zupa, daya! ♪
♪ Zupa, daya! ♪
♪ Zupa, daya! ♪
♪ Zupa, daya! ♪
Baljug: (Yaiiii, yai yai yai yai yai yai yai yai yaaiioh!)
All: ♪ Zupa, daya! ♪
♪ Zupa, daya! ♪
♪ Zupa, daya! ♪
Gerb: Ooga ooga ooga ooga. ♪
Phinabunk: ♪ Ooh chaka ooh chaka! ♪
Isabelock/Caveside Girls: ♪ Kay carga mana hoo! (Hey!) ♪
Mog/Da/Can-tok/Jerabunk: ♪ Ya ya ya! ♪
Isabelock/Caveside Girls: ♪ Gunga larga mungalo! ♪
Boofgard and Baljug: ♪ Zooga ooga chonga! ♪
Isabelock/Caveside Girls: ♪ Beep boppa zabodu!
All: ♪ Chucka lacka moo eetchie she ma goo! ♪
♪ Chucka lacka moo eetchie she ma goo! ♪
♪ Chucka lacka moo eetchie ♪
♪ Eetchie she ma ooga! ♪
♪ Ooga! ♪
♪ Ooga! ♪
Gerb: ♪ Ooga ooga ooga ooga. ♪
All: ♪ Chucka lacka moo eetchie she ma goo! ♪

End Credits
(Song: Zubada)
Phinabunk: ♪ Ooh chaka ooh chaka! ♪
Isabelock/Caveside Girls: ♪ Kay carga mana hoo! (Hey!) ♪
Mog/Da/Can-tok/Jerabunk: ♪ Ya ya ya! ♪
Isabelock/Caveside Girls: ♪ Gunga larga mungalo! ♪
Boofgard and Baljug: ♪ Zooga ooga chonga! ♪
Isabelock/Caveside Girls: ♪ Beep boppa zabodu!
All: ♪ Chucka lacka moo eetchie she ma goo! ♪
♪ Chucka lacka moo eetchie she ma goo! ♪
♪ Chucka lacka moo eetchie ♪
♪ Eetchie she ma ooga! ♪
♪ Ooga! ♪
♪ Ooga! ♪
Gerb: ♪ Ooga ooga ooga ooga. ♪
All: ♪ Chucka lacka moo eetchie she ma goo! ♪



(Scene opens up showing China in 1542. The camera pans down to the dragon parade.)
Buford: Aw nuts, I'm standing on Baljeet's shoulders and I still can't see anything!
(Camera zooms out)
Baljeet: This is not how it works!
Phineas: Relax everyone. Ferb and I have devised a solution. Hop on.
(Buford and Baljeet hop onto the plank, which then rises)
Candace: Phineas and Ferb! With technology that's slightly more advanced than what we have today. Mom!
Baljeet: You are doing it again!
Buford: It helps my arches!
Phineas: Look guys! It's Regent Monogram, and that girl must be... Princess Isabella!
Princess Isabella: Regent Monogram? When can I meet some of the local children?
Regent Monogram: Princess, I'm afraid it's just not safe for you out in the wide world what with Doofus Khan on the loose.
Princess Isabella: Doofus Khan! He has been a plague on our land for far too long!
Regent Monogram: I promise once his forces have been defeated we'll throw you the biggest party money can buy. Of course it won't cost you anything because you're a hereditary monarch.
Candace: Mom, wait till you see what Phineas and Ferb have done now! Look!
Lawrence: Look, acrobats!
Linda: Acrobats? I love acrobats.
Candace: No, Mom, over-
Lawrence: Oh no, Doofus Khan's warriors!
(The acrobats attack and the crowd flees)
Buford: He's going after the royal... thingy!
Baljeet: It is called a jou.
(A warrior snatches Princess Isabella while she screams in fear)
Regent Monogram: See this is exactly what I was... The Princess!!
Phineas: Buford, get us down there! Quick!
(Buford lowers the plank)
Regent Monogram: The Princess! The Princess! Doofus Khan why that impertinent-- (Gets hit by a taunting scroll) A taunting scroll? How uncouth!
General Carl: Should I order the final attack, sir?
Regent Monogram: No, no, General Carl. A full-scale attack now would put the Princess at risk. Oh, if only Master Perry had not given up the way of the warrior and gone to live a contemplative life on the Unclimbable Mountain of Unclimbableness, he could retrieve the Princess. Oh, if only someone could reach him and tell him of our plight!
Phineas: Guys, I know what we're gonna do today!

♪ Doofus Khan's multi-level yurt! ♪
Princess Isabella: Doofus Khan, (budges free from the grip of two warriors) Regent Monogram will have your head!
Doofus Khan: Regent Monogram will never attack as long as I have his Princess. Which should buy me all the time I need to complete my secret weapon and take over the Tri-Province area! Meanwhile, I'm putting you in the penthouse dungeon. You'll love the view. Of course I've planted booby traps all along the way and I alone know how to avoid them. (He gets hit by a giant shoe) Heh. Must have forgot that one. (A step opens up and he notices a hammer) Oops! (The hammer shoots a laser at him) Oh, that's right. (The step opens again) You're supposed to skip this step. (He screams as he falls into a step. He gets burnt, and gets chomped on by piranhas) Everything's under control, but-- (The step opens once again and gets hit by a boxing glove) Testing the system-- (Various booby traps are activated as the camera pans to the top of the stairs) Hey, hey, it works. (Gets caught by a bear trap) Anyway, here you are. (Takes out a set of keys and tries the keys to open the door) You'll have a nice rack to sleep on and some rats to keep you company. (Opens the door) So while your here, enjoy your stay. Ta-ta Princess! (Slaps the door) I'll see you-- (Stairs turn into a chute)

Phineas: There it is, The Unclimbable Mountain of Unclimbableness.
Buford: Ya know what I hate about The Unclimbable Mountain of Unclimbableness? Just to get there you have to cross the Uncrossable River of Uncrossableness.
Baljeet: Who named all these things?
Buford: That guy over there, The Redundant Scribe of Redundantness.
The Redundant Scribe of Redundantness: Hi there! Greetings!
Phineas: Okay. (The Redundant Scribe of Redundantness continues talking in the background) Ferb do we have anything for uncrossable rivers?
(Ferb pulls out a grappling hook that looks like a crossbow)
Candace: What are they up to now?
(Ferb shoots the grappling hook across the river and attaches a carriage)
Buford: Oh, that'll do. (He and Baljeet get on the carriage)
Candace: (Growls)
Baljeet: Look, a Chinese eviscerating fish. Though I suppose here in China we just call them eviscerating fish.
(Candace starts swinging across the rope)
Candace: (Mocking Baljeet) Oh but here we just call them eviscerating-- (Candace screams and falls into the river)
Buford: So how do we get up The Unclimbable Mountain of Unclimbableness?
Phineas: No worries, Buford. (Baljeet takes his hiking stick and leafs through his backpack) I think we have just the thing. (Pulls out a block of wood)
Candace: (While wringing her hair) Oh come on!
(They are climbing up on a jou with gigantic mechanical feet, emerging from red clouds)
Candace: (While climbing up the side of the mountain) Stupid Mountain of Stupidness!
(Redundant Scribe of Redundantness pops out of mountain)
Redundant Scribe of Redundantness: Actually, that was my original name for it! (Candace falls off the mountain into red clouds) Oops, my bad, sorry, my apologizes, mea culpa!
(Master Perry is seen flying a kite)
Phineas: Master Perry, (He and Ferb get out. Master Perry puts down the kite) This is a great honor. (He and Ferb bow)
Buford: Wow. I can't believe he's a platypus.
Baljeet: Phineas pulled a jou with giant mechanical feet out of his backpack and that is what bugs you?
Phineas: Master Perry! Doofus Khan has kidnapped the Princess and only you can save her!
(Master Perry chatters in disagreement)
Phineas: You mean you won't? But why, Master Perry? What made you give up the life of a warrior hero?
(Master Perry begins to ripple)
Phineas: What's he doing?
Ferb: That's a ripple dissolve. He must be having a flashback.
Phineas: Does he know we can't see it? Should we give him some privacy? I don't know the protocol for flashbacks.
(Perry stops rippling)
Phineas: Is he back? He's back. Well judging by the time you spent staring off into space I'm guessing something pretty bad. But someone has to rescue the Princess, if you won't come with us at least you can train us to do it ourselves.
(Song: The Way of the Platypus)
Background singer: ♪ Oh yeah! ♪
♪ In other circumstances you might fail ♪
♪ 'Cause I know you don't have a beaver tail ♪
♪ You're not a platypus ♪
♪ But I'm gonna see you sweat... ♪
All: ♪ Milk! ♪
Background singer: ♪ We're gonna see how much you can take ♪
♪ I'm gonna work you through your union break ♪
♪ You squeeze a silkworm, what'cha think you're gonna get? ♪
All: ♪ Silk! ♪
Background singer: ♪ But I know a way we can make you a warrior ♪
♪ Even though now you're a wuss ♪
♪ It's the Way of the Platypus! ♪
But that's just the general information. Here's some of the specific things you can look forward to in your workout...
♪ You're gonna run up a ramp with two buckets of water ♪
♪ Swing over muck for some reason ♪
♪ At some point you'll drop to your knees when it's rainin' ♪
♪ And look up into the skyyyyyyyyyyyyyy... ♪
♪ You'll stand on a pole with your arms out ♪
♪ Hey, these flowers are way out of season ♪
♪ You'll fly to a swamp planet, meet a little green man ♪
♪ And move big heavy things with your miiiiiiiiiiiiiind... ♪
♪ But I know a way we can make you a warrior ♪
♪ Even though now you're a wuss ♪
♪ It's the Way of the Platypus! ♪
♪ It's the Way of the Platypus! ♪
Phineas: Are you sure you won't come with us, Master Perry? The kingdom really needs you back.
(Perry starts rippling again)
Buford: He's doing it again.
Buford, Phineas, and Baljeet: Goodbye, Perry.
(Master Perry continues flying his kite. Candace reaches Perry)
Candace: (Panting) Where are they?
(Perry starts rippling)
Candace: You know I can't see anything right?
(Shows Phineas and the others in a jou on a pogo stick)
Phineas: Follow my lead when we get there; we're going right in the front door.
(They crash into Doofus Khan's headquarters)
Buford: I knew we shouldn't have let Baljeet drive.
Phineas: Never mind that, you two stay here and fend off the guards Ferb and I will rescue the princess.
Buford: We got it covered, just watch out for booby traps.
(Various booby traps activate and Phineas and Ferb get to the top of the staircase unscathed)
Phineas: We made it and completely unscathed. Good thing we brought along that yak bladder. Princess Isabella, we've come to rescue you stand away from the...
(Isabella flings the door open and hugs Phineas)
Princess Isabella: My hero!
Phineas: Don't worry Princess, we'll take the banister down. It's safer.
(Phineas, Ferb and Princess Isabella slide down the banister to find Baljeet and Buford surrounded by knocked out guards)
Phineas: Holy mackerel! how did you guys defeat all these soldiers?
Random soldier: We're okay.
Buford: There was nothing to it.
(Buford starts rippling)
Phineas: There's no time for flashbacks! We have to go!
Buford: What flashback? (They all run off) I'm just rippling! It relaxes me.
(Camera pans to Doofus Khan watching them escape)
Doofus Khan: Well would you look at that a bunch of kids running away with the Princess-- R-Running away with the Princess?!?! (Slides down a fireman pole) Oh Time to take matters into my own hands.
(Doofus Khan jumps into a giant robotic dragon, which flies toward the castle, turns it on and flies off, laughing maniacally)
Buford: What the heck is that?
Princess Isabella: It must be Doofus Khan's secret weapon. It's heading for the castle! What do we do?
Phineas: I've got an idea!
(Dragon flies over Regent Monogram and General Carl's heads)
Regent Monogram: Great googly moogly!
Doofus Khan: (Laughs) Amazing what you can do with a little bamboo and rice paper huh?
Regent Monogram: Doofus Khan! What have you done with Princess Isabella?
Doofus Khan: That's none of your business, but there's no way she escaped forcing me to move up my plans I can tell you that!
Regent Monogram: You barbarian!
Doofus Khan: I know I am but what are you. Nyaa! (Dragon sticks out tongue) Hehe. You like that? The tongue set me back a week but it was totally worth it.
Regent Monogram: Carl, duck!
General Carl: No, actually sir I think it's a dra.. (Carl gets slapped by the dragon's tail) Oh, that kind of duck.
(Doofus Khan starts using his robot to burn the castle)
Doofus Khan:(Laughs) Hyvertical remodeling!
General Carl: We can't take much more of this! What do we do?
Doofus Khan: Surrender! Oh what now? (A giant terracotta warrior starts marching towards them) A giant terracotta warrior? Roughly the same size as my dragon?
(Shows Phineas and the others inside the terracotta warrior)
Phineas: Left leg! Right Leg!
Doofus Khan: What could he possibly want? (Terracotta warrior goes to "crane" position) Oh he's doing that crane thing. (Terracotta warrior kicks the dragon in the face) You know, 4 centuries from now that move is gonna be real cliché. (Dragon breathes fire on the terracotta warrior) Of course, being terracotta you would be fire-proof. Okay, mono to mono (The robots fight) Ow that's not your mono!
Regent Monogram: Man, they would love this in Japan!
Candace: What the? Phineas and Ferb! Mom!
(Terracotta warrior slaps dragon repeatedly)
Doofus Khan: Agh, slapies! I hate slapies! (Terracotta warrior pushes the dragon away, then the dragon tail taps on the warriors soldier and when the soldier turns around, the dragon takes a wind up key out of the warrior's back)
Doofus Khan: (Laughs) Gotcha!
(Terracotta warrior deactivates)
Baljeet: He has the key to our defeat!
Buford: You make puns when the other guy is down, dumbbell!
Doofus Khan: Aww, poor babies feeling tired, huh? Allow me to put you to sleep! (Dragon picks up a building)
Princess Isabella: (Everyone gasps) Ew, who puts armpit hair on a mechanical dragon?
Doofus Khan: Next time, don't put your wind up key in such an obvious place. I cleverly hid mine in a spot only an ancient warrior would dare to go. (It shows Perry coming down from the sky) No, Perry the Platypus! (Perry hits the dragon's nose) Hey, careful with the soft palette there! (Perry jumps into the dragon's mouth and rolls up the tongue revealing a wind up key. He chatters)
Phineas: Ferb, the key! (Ferb shoots a grappling hook grabbing the key out of the dragon's mouth. Causing the dragon to deactivate and drop the building on itself) Uh-Oh! Eject everybody! (Phineas and the others jump out of the warrior as it and the dragon fall, over falling apart, just as Candace brings Linda over)
Candace: (With her eyes closed) Ee-ee-ee-ee...Look!
Linda: A giant mechanical terracotta warrior? Really, Candace? (she walks away) Wouldn't that be slightly more advanced that what we have today?
Candace: Well, that would've been the point!
(Regent Monogram and Princess Isabella run to each other, embracing)
Princess Isabella: Regent Monogram!
Regent Monogram: Princess!
Princess Isabella: Party now?
Regent Monogram: You betcha!
Princess Isabella: Great!
Doofus Khan: Ah, well, back to the drawing board. (General Carl puts him in a Chinese finger trap)
General Carl: Compliments of Regent Monogram.
Doofus Khan: Oh, I hate these things! (A taunting scroll hits him) Insult to injury.
Regent Monogram: Well all's well that ends well. Maybe someday we will find a way to keep our fair lands safe from barbarian invaders.
Princess Isabella: You know, I think these blocks would make a great wall.
Phineas: Ferb, I know what were going to do tomorrow!
(Many, many years later, at the Great Wall of China...)
Elderly Phineas: Well, that took longer than expected.
Elderly Ferb: But, it is a great wall.
Elderly Phineas: Yeah. So, what you wanna do tomorrow? (Ferb glares at him and then leaves) What? I kid. We can rest, how about a game of mahjong?

End Credits roll
(Song: The Way of the Platypus)
♪ These flowers are way out of season ♪
♪ You'll fly to a swamp planet, meet a little green man ♪
♪ And move big heavy things with your miiiiiiiiiiiiiind... ♪
♪ But I know a way we can make you a warrior ♪
♪ Even though now you're a wuss ♪
♪ It's the way of the platypus! ♪
♪ It's the way of the platypus! ♪



(Scene opens up zooming in on Major Monogram's house and then showing the master bedroom)
Carl: Well, how are we doing today, Major? Feeling better?
Major Monogram: Carl? What are you doing here?
Carl: Your wife said it'd be okay if I came up here and kept you company. Would that be all right? I brought a book!
Major Monogram: What kind of book?
Carl: (Somewhat excitedly) It's a fantasy adventure with wizards and knights!
Major Monogram: Are there woodland sprites?
Carl: Well, there's water sprites.
Major Monogram: (After a short pause) Go ahead.
Carl: (Begins reading) Devote your mind to this tale of the distant past, and the adventures that did befall the most noble of knights. (Scene ripples into a scene of a medieval cottage) Where stood the cottage of the humble antique dealer...
Laurence: Cheerio, dear! I'm off to hide these common objects for a couple'a hundred years, until they become valuable.
Linderella: Don't forget to put hay in the ox! (goes inside and begins to do chores) Candavere! I need you to fetch me some more water! Candavere! Oh, where is that maid?
(Scene changes, showing Candavere's room, where she is writing a letter and reading it aloud)
Candavere: Stachilda, news have I upon this evening. At the harvest bonfire I shall be on the arm of Jeremiad. Signed, Candavere. (Finishes writing) There! And now to send off this missive. (Ties letter to pigeon's foot) The time has come to do your duty, my stout-winged messenger! (Releases pigeon out the window, and it flies off, and is burnt up as a column of fire shoots out of the alchemy stove)
(Scene shows Phineas and Ferbalot's alchemy set in the yard. Parable is being used to light the stove. Ferb picks up beaker)
Phineas: That should catalyze it. We'll add it to our inventory of magical elixirs. What say we try a couple of these out? (They both take a potion and Ferbalot pours his on himself, turning into a cyclops) Cool, a cyclops! My turn! (Pours his potion on himself) A manticore! With a lion's head. (Ferbalot takes another potion) A cockatrice!
(Candavere comes through the cottage door)
Candavere: (Singing) Oh yeah, getting some water, and (Slams into door) Yack! ...Gonna have a great Midsummer Woad-Gathering Harvest Bonfire's Eve. (Sees Phineas) Good morrow, Phineas! (Begins singing again) ...With Jeremiad. (sees Ferbalot) Good morrow, Ferbalot! (Realizes what the boys are up to) Grr! What flaxen homespun have we swaggering here?!
Phineas: Careful, Candavere. Better not look at Ferbalot, or you'll turn to stone. (Ferbalot has turned into a Gorgon)
Candavere: This is a most inopportune time for your infernal hijinks, and for once our sad sweet mother will be heralded to your inpropri- Argh, I can't talk like this anymore! You guys are so busted! Mom! (running into the house, she slams into the door again) Yack! (goes into house and slams door)
Phineas: I don't know about you, Ferbalot, but I didn't get any of that. (They both pour a potion on themselves and return to normal; it begins to rain) Hey, there's something fishy about this rain. It's...it's unearthly. Come on, we better get inside.
Lady of the Puddle: (Bursts out of a puddle) Behold! I am the Lady of the Puddle!
Phineas: Don't you mean the Lady of the Lake?
Lady of the Puddle: No, that's my mom.
(Camera pans to the Lady of the Lake)
Lady of the Lake: Hey, kids! You're getting a little quest of your own. Oh, that's so nice.
(Camera pans back to the kids)
Lady of the Puddle: Anyway...Ferbalot, you and Phineas must find the legendary sword Excaliferb and use it to stop the evil sorcerer Malifishmirtz, who is behind this unearthly rain.
Phineas: Yeah, Ferb and I were just talking about the rain. Unearthly—that's...isn't that the word I used? Yeah, I used—I just--
Lady of the Puddle: I will send the magical water sprite, Isabel, to guide you on your quest.
Phineas: Great! Can't wait to meet her.
Lady of the Puddle: And to you, Ferbalot and Phineas, I bid thee good fortune! (turns into a wave of water and splashes on the boys)
Phineas: Wow, good thing she wasn't "Lady of the Hot Coffee." (at Linda) Mom! Ferb and I are going on a quest.
Linderella: (from inside the cottage) Don't forget to goad the geese on your way out!
Phineas: Sure thing, mom. (at a goose) Get in there, Gertrude!
(The goose flaps into the yard, honking angrily.)
Phineas: (opens the gate door) Whoa! This must be the sprite, Isabel!
Isabel: What art thou doin'? (curtseys)
Phineas: Apparently you're going to guide us on a quest.
Isabel: Yes. You must first cross the Raging River of Uncertainty by way of the Bridge of Comprehension. Then you must brave the Swamp of Spit-Poor Attitudes; then it's snack time, I brought along some apples. After that, you will enter the Cave of Ten Thousand Monsters, where the sword Excaliferb can be found. (at Ferbalot) Ferb, only a warrior with a true heart may draw it from the stone and wield it in battle against the evil sorcerer Malifishmirtz.
(Phineas glances at Ferbalot)
Ferbalot: (after a short pause) Yeah, okay, I'm down with that.
Isabel: (at Phineas) Do you have any questions?
Phineas: Yeah, where's Parable?
(Scene shows Parable walking through the forest then puts on his hat and runs to the tower where he climbs what looks like hair. When he reaches the top it turns out to be a king with a long mustache.)
Monopunzel: Good morning Sir P. (the feather in Parable's hat shoots out) The tempest we're experiencing was conjured up by the evil Malifishmirtz, we need you to fly up to his evil fortress and put the kibosh on his evil machinations.
(Parable flies off)
(The scene shifts back to Major Monogram's room)
Major Monogram: I really like that character; is there going to be more about him?
Carl: I'm sorry, sir, he just comes in at the beginning. Shall I continue? (Major Monogram mumbles under his breath) Huh?
Major Monogram: OK.
Carl: Meanwhile, back at the cottage of the humble antique dealer...
(Scene changes to inside the cottage with Candavere and Linderella)
Candavere: Mom, I'm telling you; they're gallivanting around out there conjuring things with magical elixirs.
Linderella: Candavere, I've never see them gallivant.
Candavere: (sighs in frustration) When are you going to believe me? What if I got you some proof?
Linderella: I'd rather you got me some more grulewood.
Candavere: Fine. (leaves the cottage, talks to herself) Candavere, fetch me grulewood. Candavere, rake the roof-thatch. Candavere, go accuse the neighbors of witchcraft. If only I had some (sees the potions) proof! (grabs two of them) All I have to do is grab a couple of these to show Mom and (trips causing the potions to spill on her) Oof! Ugh. What is this stuff? (a unicorn horn appears on her head) Ahh, stupid potion! I know, maybe this will get rid of it. (pours another potion on her head) That didn't work. I'm going to go tell Mom. (turns around and sees a tail) Aaugh! Oh, great a tail! Phineas and Ferbalot, you are so bu.. (breaths fire) I can't go to the Midsummer Woad-Gathering Harvest Bonfire like this. What will Jeremiad think? I'm just gonna have to find Phineas and Ferb and make them tell me which one of these elixirs will change me back. (grabs some potions and runs, but trips again causing all of them to spill on her making different colored smoke to appear) Ah! Oh this is not, oh no. Oh. Oh, there's a... oh no. Oh...
(scene changes to Malifishmirtz's fortress)
♪ Malifishmirtz Evil Incorporated, but not really a corporation because corporations haven't been invented yet so it's more like a guild or a tradesmen association! ♪
(Parable flies to Malifishmertz's fortress and breaks down the door)
Malifishmirtz: Ah-ha! Parable the Dragonpus, welcome to your doom! (aims his staff to shoot magic at Parable but doesn't work) Hey, wha-what's the matter with this thing? Hey-Hey Gnorme, can you come out here and give me a hand?
Gnorme: Of course! (walks in and drops a cage on Parable)
Malifishmirtz: Do you like him, Parable the Dragonpus? I call him a Lawn Gnorme. He protects my garden from witches' spells and wood trolls. I'm going to make small versions of him and sell them all over... Anyway, let me tell you about my plan for seizing control of the Tri-Kingdom Area. (walks down the tower) You see, I was bullfrog hunting down by the rat catcher's shack and came across a... (muffled sound from going around the back of the stairs) ...the biggest raspberry I've ever seen! It was the size of a cucumber! (muffled sound) ...is what I said because I had a gag over my mouth. (muffled sound continues until he reached the bottom) ...and that's why I decided to take over the Tri-Kingdom Area! True story. And now, I know exactly how to do it! You see, I found this ancient text, more of a-- a pamphlet really, and decided to use it to conjure up the most evil multitude to ever tread the Earth! But to do that, I needed to start with the most hideous substance known to man: Canned meat! Tripe-Henge Brand, only the best! So, earlier today, I placed thousands of cans of canned meat into the largest of my three cauldrons, cast my evil reanimation spell, and ta-da! (Gnorme dumps them out of the cauldron, and the small meatlings begin chattering "meat") Yeah, don't say it, I know, they're—they're a little small, but that's why the rain, see? They absorb water, and they will grow, and when they get bigger, I'm hoping their attitude will become a little more, you know, rampage-y.
Phineas: Isabel, why did you take us to the Inn of the Prancing Platypus?
Isabel: We need allies. There's a lot of mercenaries and thugs to choose from. Plus, they make a great taco salad.
Phineas: Who's that creepy guy? He's been staring at us since we got here. I wonder what he wants...
Isabel: He's coming over! Be cool.
Bufavulous: I would recommend a little more caution from you, wizardling. Malifishmirtz's spies are everywhere. Look at that guy over there.
Phineas: He doesn't look like a spy; he looks more like a shepherd.
Bufavulous: He's a shepherd spy. They're the worst kind.
Phineas: Are you a mercenary thug?
Bufavulous: Actually I'm here for the taco salad. But you guys look like you could do with a little muscle. The name's Bufavulous, the Wind Lord. I can help you on your quest.
Phineas: Welcome aboard!
Bufavulous: You should also know that I travel with a companion by the name of Baljeetolas, of the Nerdling Realm.
Baljeetolas: Greetings, adventurers! If by my bow, or my vast store of useless knowledge I may aid you... Hey, where is my bow?
Bufavulous: You left it in the booth.
Baljeetolas: Oh, excuse me. Well, there it is. Has anyone seen my arrows?
Bufavulous: Bathroom!
Isabel: Now that we're all congregated, we must away!
Bufavulous: Let everyone now task his thought, that this fair quest may on foot be brought!
(The five begin their quest accompanied by banjo music)
Monogram: Whoa, hey, whoa, hold it. What's with the banjo?
Carl: Traveling music.
Monogram: Where are they going, Alabama?
Carl: What do you mean, sir?
Monogram: Well, uh, questing music should have an element of foreboding and mystery, you know, lots of minor chords and stuff. And, to make it sound more medieval, you throw a major chord in right at the end.
Carl: (sighs) Okay, I'll see what I can do. And so, the merry band set off on their quest, to the foreboding sounds of minor chords. Better?
Monogram: Little less sarcasm would be nice.
(Song: "Questing Song")
♪ A-questing we will go ♪
♪ Into this cursed rain ♪
♪ We're ill-prepared and under-trained ♪
♪ With no practical knowledge of this terrain ♪
♪ A brute, a girl, two brothers, and a brain ♪
♪ Hiking up this inclined plain ♪
(The shepherd spy whispers something into Malifishmirtz's ear)
Malifishmirtz: What do you know, my shepherd spy tells me that a team of erstwhile heroes bent on defeating me are on their way here right now.
(The spy whispers something else in Malifishmirtz's ear)
Malifishmirtz: Oh, yeah, sure. It's just down that way, past the Sally-port on your right. You can't miss it!
(The group come to a bridge spanning what looks to be a gorge)
Phineas: A bridge.
Baljeetolas: Are not these kind of things guarded in these types of stories?
Bufavulous: Yeah, like by a troll?
Troll: (Appears in a puff of smoke) Do I look like a troll to you?
Baljeetolas: Do not answer truthfully; it will only enrage her.
Troll: In order to cross my Bridge of Comprehension, you must first answer three questions. The questions will fall into three categories: arts and sciences, social studies, and what's hot and what's not.
Baljeetolas: (Standing beneath the bridge in the creek bed) Uh, hey guys? It is not really that deep down here.
Troll: The answer must be given in haiku form.
Phineas: If it's all the same to you, we'll just go around.
Troll: It's not all the same to me.
(They cross the river)
Baljeetolas: Just for the record,
The answer to your riddle
is an egg. Bye now!
Troll: Come back! You can't ju... Wait a minute! Just-for-the-rec-ord The-an-swer-to-your-rid-dle is-an-egg-bye-now. Hum, what do you know, that was a haiku.
Malifishmirtz: The time has come, my little meat gamejos. Rain down on my enemies, and stop them from advancing. And bring me back a newspaper. (Malifishmirtz fires them from a catapult and cackles) You too. Go. (He flings one more meatling)
Phineas: Uh oh. Doesn't look good. (In reference to the giant gorge they are overlooking) Whoa.
Bufavulous: This is where that crazy old bat should have built her bridge.
Isabel: This is the Rocky, Shallow River of Nevermore.
Baljeetolas: Why must everything have such long names?
Phineas: We're going to have to turn around and find another way across this gorge.
(The meatlings land in front of them)
Bufavulous: Oh no, canned meat! Now we're in trouble.
Isabel: But they're so cute.
Phineas: They're getting bigger!
Bufavulous: And more rampagey!
(They are backed up to the cliff's edge)
Baljeetolas: Are quests usually this short?
Phineas: We're not going to go without a fight!
Isabel: Phineas! I want all of you to jump.
Phineas: Uh, you know that it's called the Rocky, Shallow River of Nevermore for a reason, right?
Isabel: I have a plan, just trust me!
Phineas: I don't know, how 'bout you Ferb? (Ferbalot jumps off the cliff) Should we... Ferb? He's right. Come on! (He jumps as well)
Bufavulous: Mother always told me that if all the other kids were jumping off a cliff, I should, too.
Baljeetolas: Your mother said that?
Bufovulous: She was not a nurturer. Let's go!
(They both jump off)
Phineas: Isabel, if you're going to do something, now would be a nice time! (The screen freezes with the four of them all in midair)
Major Monogram: Carl, you- you stopped!
Carl: I think we need to take a little break.
Major Monogram: Wow, bad time for that. You totally left me hanging in that cliff scene.
Carl: That's kinda the point, sir.
Major Monogram: Oh, I see. Very clever.

Part II
Major Monogram Geesh, Carl, what- what took so long?
Carl: Sorry sir. I was just down in your beautiful kitchen and your wife was making two sandwiches. And I got to tell you, they were de-lish!
Major Monogram: Did she make one for me?
Carl: Oh...huh. How about we get back to the book?
Major Monogram: Carl, did you eat my sandwich?
Carl: As our heroes fell, doubt swept through them-
Major Monogram: Carl, you ate my sandwich!
Carl: Do you want to hear this or not, sir?
Major Monogram: Okay.
Carl: As our heroes fell, doubt swept through them.
Phineas: Isabel! If you're going to do something, now would be a nice time!
Isabel: Sisters! Hear my summons, beckon through the rain, carry thy waters to me now, and fill the river once again.
(The water sprites bring water into the river and create a water slide of sorts for the band to ride down to safety on)
Isabel: Nice work, girls! See you at Tuesday's brunch.
Phineas: That was cool; a slide made out of water!
Bufavulous: What would you call a thing like that?
Baljeetolas: I don't know.
(A rumbling is heard)
Troll: Oh good, another customer for my bridge. In order to cross my Bridge of (She turns around and opens her eyes as a shadow falls over her) Com... Com... Com...
Candavere (in a strange voice): Have you seen my brothers?
Troll: (Points in the direction Phineas and Ferbalot went) Com... Com... Com... Cooooom...prehension. Well, I think that went well.
Isabel: We're getting close. This must be the Swamp of Spit-Poor Attitudes!
Phineas: Why is it called that?
Isabel: Legend has it, that in order to get across this swampy marsh, you have to have a good attitude.
Phineas: This swamp was made for me! Come on, Ferbalot!
Baljeetolas: Come on Bufavulous, what is the holdup?
Bufavulous: I ain't goin'.
Isabel: Just think good thoughts, and you'll be fine!
Bufavulous: You don't know me very well, do you?
Phineas: Hey guys, I can see Mount Doof from here, we're almost there!
Baljeetolas: I have an idea. I think I have a way to get you across this swamp. I have been working on a way of solving problems by the process of deriving reliable generalizations from observation. I call it "logic."
Bufavulous: Logic? How come I've never heard of this?
Baljeetolas: Because it is the Middle Ages.
Bufavulous: Oh, is it anything like hysterical hearsay?
Baljeetolas: Yes, in that it is the exact opposite of that.
Bufavulous: Yeah?
Baljeetolas: Listen, here is how it works. By observing the swamp, logic tells me that it is too big to go around. And by gathering information about it from Isabel, I can logically make assessments about the best way to get across. Are you following me?
Bufavulous: Absolutely not.
Baljeetolas: (He sighs) Phineas has pie.
Bufavulous: Out of my way, runt! (He runs across the swamp)
Malifishmirtz: And that's why the Earth is flat, Parable the Drogonpus. Huh, what's this?
Mirror: Thou hast mail!
Malifishmirtz: Mail? Who's it from, let me see? Ooh, a video! (Pulls up a video of the five heroes) Look at that. I don't believe it! How did these miscreants escape my meatlings?
Isabel: Behold, the Cave of Ten Thousand Monsters! Here you will find the sword Excaliferb.
Phineas: Cool! Looks like you're on, bro.
Malifishmirtz: Let's see how they deal with this! (He throws a puff of smoke at the mirror, which causes a large pile of rocks to come tumbling down at the kids)
Phineas: Uh-oh! Avalanche! Quick, inside! (They all run inside just before the rocks block the entrance)
Malifishmirtz: That should do it. (Parable chatters) Now where were we, Parable the Dragonpu- (Parable kicks Malifishmirtz in the face) Hey! How did you escape from-- (The cage is seen, burnt through) Oh, right, fire-breathing dragon, wicker cage... What do you know, that guy at the pet shop was right. (Parable launches himself at Malifishmirtz, but is knocked towards the window and tries to prevent himself from falling) Ah-HA!! (Parable gets shot by Malifishmirtz's staff and falls out the window) Man, this thing really does work when you put batteries in it.
Lady of the Puddle: Ferbalot... (He wakes up) The object you seek is near. Come this way. (Ferbalot is led towards a glowing blue light) Behold! The sword Excaliferb! (The sword is sticking out of a stone with a sign reading "One Yanketh Per Customer") The instrument that will be Malifishmirtz's end.
(The Lady of the Puddle disappears)
Phineas: (walking into the Excaliferb room with the rest of the heroes) Wow. Look! Ferbalot is modeling this season's latest in magical weaponry, Excaliferb. But, wasn't there something we had to do first?
(Ferbalot pulls the sword from the stone. This causes large doors to open, revealing many angry-looking eyes.)
Phineas: Oh, right. The Cave of Ten Thousand Monsters.
(Malifishmirtz advances towards Parable, who has landed on a rock)
Malifishmirtz: (laughs evilly) Finally, my greatest nemesis vanquished! Now, Parable the Dragonpus, prepare to meet your dim. Doom! I mean Doom. Prepare to meet your... Uh, man, talk about blowing the moment.
(Suddenly the band appears, riding the ten thousand monsters to Mount Doof)
Ferbalot: Behold, evil wizard Malifishmirtz. (draws sword) I hold the sword Excaliferb. This mystical vorpal blade was given to me by the Lady of the Puddle. Get a good look at it, for it is the instrument of your demise! (The blade of the sword falls off the hilt) Well, uh, okay. So big deal, the end's come off.
Phineas: Looks like we're switching to plan B everyone.
Bufavulous: Plan B?
Baljeetolas: Yes, that is where we all attack him with ten thousand monsters.
Bufavulous: Oh, that plan B.
Malifishmirtz: Are you kidding me?! I'm not afraid of you kids or your monsters. In fact, I am not afraid of anything! Ha! Except, you know, unicorns, but other than that, nothing! Just unicorns and... and whales. That's... That's a given, everyone's afraid of whales. And squid. Uh, Unicorns, whales, and squid, and... and Pegasuses. That's it! Pegasuses, whales, unicorns, squid, scorpions, barnacles—You know, I should really make a list. And girls. I used to be terrified of girls but I sort of got over that. (The genetically twisted Candavere appears behind him) Now it's just, you know, like, sort of a mild anxiety. So just to recap: girls, whales, squid-- (Notices that everyone is looking towards the sky) Hey, what's everyone looking at?
(Sees Candavere)
Candavere: Phineas and Ferb-a-Lot, you are so busted!
Malifishmirtz: Oh, what do you know, it's a uni-whale-scorpio-Pega-squid-icorn- girl. What are the odds. You know, taken all together, it's more ridiculous than scary. I guess it doesn't have a cumulative effect.
Phineas: Advance!
Malifishmirtz: Meatlings, you advance too.
(Song: "Epic Monster Battle")
♪ Their battle cries rend the skies asunder ♪
♪ Their massive feet beat the mountains down ♪
♪ Mortal fear combines with wonder ♪
♪ And the titan king will be crowned ♪
♪ Out of the misty swamp they lumber ♪
♪ While the heavens above them thunder ♪
Bufavulous: (to Baljeetolas) Hey, are you gonna eat your cucumber? What!? I had a light lunch.
♪ It's an epic monster battle ♪
♪ Sound the awesome monster horn ♪
♪ For an evil wizard and the dragonpus ♪
♪ And a uni-whale-scorpio-Pega-squid-icorn ♪
♪ ...girl ♪
Crashing turns to quiet
And calm sweeps through the land
The battle's been decided
But who had the upper hand?
But look, a hero rises from the smoke
Our glory has been regained
A cheer goes up among our army...
♪ But the other guy gets up again! ♪
Now for truth the battle's over
And evil's reign is done
Our hero stands triumphant...
No, no, wait, I was wrong.
♪ He's up again! ♪
I feel reasonably sure it's over this time. What do you guys think? Oh, wait,
♪ He's up again! ♪
Carl: From the top of another hill, a figure appears, a shaft of light shining off his auburn hair. It was Carl, the Red-headed Paladin from the land of Internius. He--
Monogram: Carl, now you're just getting ridiculous.
Carl: I don't see why I can't be in this story. Besides, it's totally better this way.
Monogram: I don't care, read it the way it's written.
Carl: Fine. Suddenly they all found out a way to settle their differences, and it wasn't long before a peace accord was drafted and signed.
Monogram: Cut it out, Carl! Read what it really says.
Carl: That's what it says. Look, see for yourself.
Monogram: (Reading) Hmm, both contracting parties, undertake to maintain peaceful and friendly relations between them, in the mutual ib- Oh! Come on Carl! Whatever happened to Candavere, what about Jeremiad?
Carl: Well, I suppose I could just skip to the epilogue, sir. Hmm. Having signed the peace accord, the happy wanderers returned to their village as heroes. The rain stopped, and Candavere kept her date with Jeremiad. As they danced, she was as happy as a young girl could be. Especially as she was now back to normal. (Candavere spits out fire) Well, almost. But even as the heroes recalled their tales of glory, the evil Malifishmirtz slipped away, bent on laying the groundwork for a sequel. (Malifishmirtz escapes from his pillory) But for now, all was right with the world, and everyone in the village agreed that it was the best Midsummer Woad-Gathering Harvest Bonfire's Eve ever. Certainly the first one to have ten thousand monsters. The End. How was that, sir?
Monogram: Okay, I guess.
Carl: Well, I guess I'd better get going.
Monogram: Carl?
Carl: Yes, sir?
Monogram: Maybe you could come back and read to me tomorrow?
Carl: Uh, we kind of have to work tomorrow.
Monogram: Oh, fine.

End credits
(Song: "Epic Monster Battle")
Now for truth the battle's over
And evil's reign is done
Our hero stands triumphant...
No, no, wait, I was wrong.
♪ He's up again! ♪
I feel reasonably sure it's over this time. What do you guys think? Oh, wait,
♪ He's up again! ♪
Carl: From the top of another hill, a figure appears, a shaft of light shining off his auburn hair.
Monogram: Carl!
Carl: Sir, you're crushing my spirit.
Monogram: Yes. Yes I am.



(The scene opens up with a map of India that has an overlaid date of 1914, before shifting to a snowy mountain, into which a cave is set. Ohio Flynn and Rhode Island Fletcher climb up the mountain and into the cave. Rhode Island slides their toboggan near the mouth of the cave as they enter)
Ohio: This is it. Giant Cannibal Cave! According to the map, Beserk Magurk stashed it here. No one ever saw him again. This way! Up these Giant Cannibal Stairs!
(They climb up two gigantic steps to find themselves overlooking a giant table set several feet below them. On the plate rests a skeleton wearing a fedora, clutching a golden talisman in his bony fingers)
Ohio: There it is - the Amulet of Juatchadoon! And that must be Magurk, down there on that Giant Cannibal Dining Set! (Grins) How much rope do you have? (Rhode Island gestures to several hundred feet of rope) As always, you are prepared.
(They attach the rope to a rocky bridge, scaring away hundreds of bats. Rhode Island quickly rappels down and grabs the amulet. He shakes off the skeletal arm still attached to it as Ohio pulls him up)
Ohio: So, the markings on this amulet should lead us to the lost Temple of Juatchadoon!
(As they run across the bridge and into the next room, Norm steps out and picks them up from behind)
Norm: Who wants cocoa?
Ohio: Hey, let us go, you big galute!
(The pair hear someone slowly clapping and look over as a parka-clad Doofenshmirtz emerges from the shadows.)
Ohio: (With disdainful recognition) Doofenshmirtz.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, well, well. Ohio Flynn and Rhode Island Fletcher. What are you doing here?
Ohio: That depends - why are you slow clapping?
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, I don't know, I thought it would make my entrance more dramatic. And it totally worked!
Ohio: (At Rhode Island) You know, he's right. It was more dramatic.
Doofenshmirtz: Now, hand over that amulet!
Ohio: No way! (Rhode Island holds the amulet away from Doofenshmirtz) We retrieved it, fair and square!
Doofenshmirtz: (Laughs) Tell it to the Abominable Snowman!
Ohio: Well, that's a weird expression...?
Doofenshmirtz: No, I mean tell him right now - LOOK!!
(Camera pans back to show a giant Abominable Snowman standing behind Norm. It roars, and squashes Norm accordion-style as Doofenshmirtz runs in terror. The squashed Norm drops the boys, and they run out of the cave)
Norm: (Wobbling around after the boys) I'll just run ahead!
(Ohio and Rhode Island rush out to the cave's mouth and hop on their toboggan, sledding down the hill. Back in the cave, the Snowman is still chasing Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Maybe the "Giant Cannibal" thing was a mislead! I think the dining set was his! (He hops behind Norm onto their rocket-powered sled.) Go, go, go, go, go, go, go!! (The Snowman makes a huge snowball and tosses it down the mountain after them. It crashes into their sled and they roll down the hill with it.)
Doofenshmirtz: (Wincing) Oh, mama!
(Ohio and Rhode Island jump in their biplane at the mountain's base and take off, barely missing the sled-filled snowball. They sail off into the distance as the ball careens into a cliff face, revealing Doofenshmirtz and Norm)
Norm: (Starts slow clapping)
Doofenshmirtz: Way too soon for a callback, Norm.
(On the map, we see a dashed red line come in from the left, circle the Pacific Ocean, and end in Panama. In the jungle, a monkey swings on some vines. The camera follows him, settling on a building labeled "The Rusty Pickaxe Trading Post". Inside, Lawrence, dressed as a waiter, approaches the boys, who are seated at a table)
Lawrence: Hello, gents! What's your fancy?
Ohio: Well, fame, glory, money, and the preservation of semi-mystical historical treasures... but, we'll settle for hot fudge sundaes!
(Candace is shown walking up behind Ohio in a journalist's outfit)
Candace: They're here! Ee-ee-ee-ee... (runs to a nearby telephone booth in the saloon, and then dials a number)
Chief Linda: (On phone, voice-only) Daily Tableaux?
Candace: Chief! Who do you think just showed up in Panama?
(Chief Linda cross-cuts the screen, sitting in an office)
Chief Linda: If you're gonna try and sell me another fairy tale about Ohio Flynn and Rhode Island Flet--
Candace: There's a scoop here, and I can smell it! (A fly-ridden hick walks through the saloon doors, carrying a pig) Or they haven't invented deodorant soap yet, but there's still a scoop!
Chief Linda: Fine. But I wanna see pictures!
Candace: I won't let ya down!
Ohio: (Back at their table, to Rhode Island) Someone around here is bound to know something about the lost Temple of Juatchadoon! (Isabella enters in a purple dress, holding a fan to obscure most of her face)
Isabella: (Said in the same manner as her catchphrase) Juatchadoon?
Ohio: (Without looking at her) Exactly. We don't even know if it really exists!
Isabella: (Sitting down at the table as the boys remove their hats) Oh, it exists all right! And I know where to find it!
(A man with spiders all over him is seen walking nonchalantly behind them)
Ohio: (Intrigued) Go on...
(Isabella lowers her fan and starts handing business cards to Ohio as she lists each one)
Isabella: Isabella Garcia-Shapiro. Femme fatale, ingenue, amateur archeologist, and licensed tile and grout installer. (A Tarzan-like figure in a loincloth swings from a vine behind them) A girl has to earn a living!
Ohio: Pleased to meet you! Do you know anything about...this? (Removes the amulet from around his neck)
Isabella: (Gasps) The Amulet of Juatchadoon! The legend says it can awaken an evil corn colossus with the power to destroy the world!
Ohio: Makes you wonder why ancient people were always making stuff like that...I mean, what's the upside? (A number of arrows fly behind them)
Isabella: My mother, New Hampshire Garcia-Shapiro, was searching for the Temple when she disappeared! I'm afraid something terrible has happened to her! You've just gotta help me! (Hands Ohio another card) I'm also a certified Damsel in Distress.
(Behind them, a man dressed in safari clothing tries to fight a snake)
Ohio: Well, we don't normally go searching other archaeologists slash adventurers, but I guess we can make an exception. Now if we only knew which way she went...
Isabella: (Pulls out a map) Would this map she sent me help?
Ohio: Yes, yes it would. We're gonna need transportation. (Puts away the map in his inner jacket pocket) (At Rhode Island) Rhode Island Fletcher, I know what we're gonna dig up today!
(They all head out of the saloon)
Candace: (snaps a picture of the scene) Ee-ee-ee-ee...
(Perry is seen in pet mode at the front of the entrance of the saloon. He puts his fedora on and runs into the saloon. Inside, the saloon patrons are throwing ice cream in cones/bowls everywhere)
Lawrence: Gentlemen, please! There simply are no more maraschino cherries!!
(Perry runs up a flight of stairs and enters a room shielded by a purple curtain. Inside, a halogen lamp is turned on and he meets Major Monogram and Carl, whom are both wearing fezzes)
Major Monogram: There you are Agent P! Welcome to the meeting of the Secret Order of the Knights Without a Cool Acronym or SOKWCA. As you know, it is our duty to...Hey! You're not wearing your fez. (Pointing to a part of the room) Better go to the fez dispenser. (Perry takes off his fedora and gets a fez from a vending-machine like dispenser) As I was saying, Doofenshmirtz is dangerously close to laying his mits on the lost Idol of Juatchadoon. If he were to get hold of it, it would be blood-sucking-Chupacabra-brain-eating-zombie-ancient-Mayan-Gods-come-to-life-weird-voodoo-curses-with-goat-heads and what not bad. Now, get out there and stop him Agent P.
Carl: Why are we wearing a fez in the middle of Central America anyway?
Major Monogram: (In a shocked tone) You mean we're not in Egypt! I thought those pyramids were kind of stair steppy.
(On the map, we see a red line traverse from the left to the right of Central America. Ohio, Rhode Island, Isabella and Candace are dropped off at a riverside jetty in the middle of the rainforest by Baljeet and Buford, who transported them there in a tugboat)
Baljeet: Last stop! I'm afraid there is no way to get to the East Coast by boat unless you go all the way around South America.
Buford: Nothing but jungle from here on out.
Ohio: Care to come with us?
Baljeet: (Sarcastically) And spoil my carefully calculated air of selfishness and unconcern? Not until the last second thank you very much! (Baljeet and Buford sail away leaving the rest of the group behind)
Ohio Wow, authentic riverboat gibberish. (Enthusiastically) This way gang!
(Candace takes a picture of Ohio, Rhode Island and Isabella before the camera transitions from the riverside to the middle of the jungle)
Isabella: (To Candace) Its sweet of you to help us find my mom Ms...?
Candace: Candace. And are you kidding? I've been trying to get a good scoop all summer long!
Isabella: Well it's a lucky thing you accidentally hammered yourself into that crate marked temple expedition supplies then isn't it.
Candace: Boy, I'll say
Ohio: We've found it! (He and Rhode Island look through the foliage at a looming step pyramid) It's the fabled Temple of Juatchadoon!
(The camera transitions to the group walking up a flight of steps leading to the temple's entrance. Frescos of corn adorn the temple's exterior. At the entrance, there is a sealed doorway stopping them from going further. To their right, there is a glass case enclosing a golden key)
Ohio: (He reads writing on the doorway) If you choose to go further you'll wish you weren't born. (Candace takes a picture) The road to destruction is paved with corn. Cheery! (He walks towards the glass case) There must be some trick to opening this case. A latch, or somewhere to twist it or...
Isabella: Or, we could hit it with a rock. (She hits the glass case with a stone and it shatters)
Ohio: Yeah, that works.                          
(Ohio takes the key and unlocks the door, which promptly opens. Candace takes a picture and they progress on to the inside of the temple)
(Song: Don't Look Down)
♪ Adventure's quite a pleasure, ♪
♪ we're not in it for the treasure, ♪
♪ we'll amble at our leisure, ♪
♪ but don't look down! ♪
♪ Gotta keep on your toes, ♪
♪ and follow your nose, ♪
♪ you never know where the tunnel goes, ♪
♪ just don't look down! ♪
♪ Lots of snakes and spiders, ♪
♪ wish this tunnel was wider, ♪
♪ wish we had a guide here, ♪
♪ just don't look down! ♪
♪ Gotta keep on your toes, ♪
♪ and follow your nose, ♪
♪ you never know where the tunnel goes, ♪
♪ just don't look down! ♪
♪ Gotta keep on your toes (keep on your toes), ♪
♪ and follow your nose (follow your nose), ♪
♪ you never know where the tunnel goes, ♪
♪ just don't look down!♪
♪ When you're looking up (looking up), ♪
♪ You don't look down! ♪
(The group enters the inner chamber of the temple; a room ornately decorated with frescos of corn. They face a massive statue flanked by cauldrons of fire)
Ohio: This is it guys; the corn colossus of Juatchadoon! (Candace takes a picture just before she and the rest of the group get trapped in a cage )
Doofenshmirtz: Oh yeah! Oh yeah baby! (He is standing on a descending totem pole)
Ohio: (With disdainful recognition) Doofenshmirtz! Nice entrance.
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, that whole subtle thing wasn't working out for me as you know. Now, hand over that amulet.
Ohio: YOU FIEND! You think we're just gonna give it to you!
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, yes I do. (He opens the cage door and lets Isabella out)
Isabella: (At Ohio and Rhode Island) Sorry boys. (At Doofenshmirtz) Here you go! (She gives him the amulet and her map)
Ohio: Isabella, you dirty double crosser!
Isabella: I forgot to give you this one. (She hands Ohio a card that reads "Isabella, Dirty Double Crosser". He looks up unamused.) Okay, I've kept up my end of the bargain. Now where's...
New Hampshire: (In a distressed tone) Isabella!
Isabella: Mom! (She rushes over to a trench in the ground, where she finds her mom)
New Hampshire: Oh mi hija, you came!
Isabella: Are you okay?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, she's fine, but she could use a little company! (He pushes Isabella into the trench) Ha Ha. Now, if you don't mind I've got a little ceremony to conduct. Let's see, probably instructions on the back or you rub it or twist it... (The amulet activates and starts shooting out yellow lightning.) AAAHHH! AAAHHH! Okay, okay. Getting used to it, getting used to it. Yeah, I'm good! Ha, Ha, Ha, Ha, Ha, Ha, Ha. (The yellow lightning hits the colossus and it awakens)
Candace: This is it! (She takes multiple pictures while Doofenshmirtz cackles in the background)
Doofenshmirtz: Now, I have the power to bla, bla, bla, supernatural, bla, bla, et cetera, et cetera. But first I'm going to New York; we'd kill on Broadway! (There is a loud explosion on the background) What the...!
(Perry the Platypus enters with a dancing troupe)
(Song: Perry the Platypus)
Background scat: ♪ (Dooby dooby doo-bah) X4 ♪
Female Singers: ♪ Perry! ♪
Male Singer: ♪ He's a semi-aquatic, egg-laying mammal of action! ♪
Female Singers: ♪ In a fez! ♪
Male Singer: ♪ He's got more than just mad skill! ♪
♪ He's got a beaver tail and a bill! ♪
Female Singers: ♪ And a fez! ♪
Male Singer: ♪ He's Perry, Perry the Platypus! ♪
Major Monogram: But you can call him Agent P.
Male Singer: ♪ Perry! ♪
Major Monogram: I said you can call him Agent P!
Male Singer: ♪ A-Gent P! ♪
(While the song was playing, Perry helped Isabella, New Hampshire, Ohio, Rhode Island and Candace to escape)
Doofenshmirtz: (At Perry) Perry the Platypus, you totally one-upped my entrance. Doesn't matter, 'cos look what I got. (He points to the colossus and cackles as it approaches Perry and the dancing troupe)
Ohio: We've got to lead the Corn Colossus away from those backup singers!
Isabella: OMG! Coolest sentence ever! Somebody write that down! (Rhode Island writes it down while Ohio picks up an ear of corn)
Ohio: Hey Corny! What do you think of this! (He splits the corn into two, causing the colossus to roar in anger)
Candace: Enrage the all powerful Corn Colossus; good thinking! (In an attempt to escape, they run out of the room, just as the colossus smashes through the wall)
Doofenshmirtz: (At the colossus) Yeah, you go smash the kids, then we'll take over the world later. As long as I still have... (He is interrupted by Perry, who kicks him to the ground)
(The scene shifts to a rope bridge traversing a fiery pit)
Isabella: Quick, across this incredibly fragile rope bridge! (The group runs safely across, then stops at the other side. The colossus attempts to follow them, but the rope snaps under its weight)
Ohio: Get ready for some popcorn! (The colossus tumbles into the flames)
Isabella: Wow, he was a lot easier to defeat than I thought he would be. (The colossus emerges from the flames, much to everyone's disdain) Great, now he's on fire! (The now flaming colossus continues to pursue the group)
Candace: (In a sarcastic tone) Yeah, this is much better! (They climb up a ladder at the end of a passageway)
Ohio: I thought he would pop! I mean, corn pops right? Was I totally out of line? (The ladder leads them to the outer facade of the temple) Down the stairs everybody! (The colossus breaks through the lower portion of the temple, blocking their path) Or... up the stairs!
Candace: (In a sarcastic tone) Gee, you think?
Isabella: (They approach the top of the temple. The corn colossus is still in hot pursuit of the group) Running out of steps here!
(The scene shifts to Perry doing battle with Doofenshmirtz in the temple's inner chamber. Doofenshmirtz jumps up holding a ear of corn in each hand)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, ha! You just wait till I connect with one of these. Then you'll wish you'd never been corned! Get it, 'cos it rhymes with... Hey what's with the fez anyway, we're not even in Egypt! (Perry pulls the tassel on his fez and it flies upwards, revealing a fedora underneath. The flying fez has an automated claw, which seizes the amulet from Doofenshmirtz. With the amulet still in its grasp, the fez flies upwards and out of the temple) You're a real spoil sport you know that.
(The scene shifts back to the group and the enraged colossus. They have reached the top of the pyramid)
Candace: Okay, thoughts?
Ohio: (The flying fez and the amulet appear in front of Ohio) The amulet!
New Hampshire: Ooh, we can use the amulet to control the Corn Colossus!
Isabella: We have to figure out how to activate it!
Ohio: Or we could hit it with a rock. (He hits the amulet and it shatters. A yellow beam of light shoots out of the center of the temple and the colossus turns into popcorn) Oh now he pops! How does that make any sense?
(The scene shifts back to Doofenshmirtz and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: (The temple starts to collapse) (In a sarcastic tone) Oh, terrific. The temple is falling apart! Are you happy? Probably my face will melt now, and for what?
(The scene shifts to the temple splitting in half. A map shows the split dividing Central America into two; indirectly creating the Panama Canal. The temple collapses, and the group fall into a body of water below. The camera shows Phineas swimming up to the surface)
Buford: That's the last one. (He pulls Phineas out of the water and onto his tugboat, where the rest of the group is standing)
New Hampshire: That was very smooth of you rescuing us at the last moment.
Baljeet: That is just how I'm playing it, babe.
Ohio: Well we found the amulet, defeated the corn monster, apparently created a much needed canal across Panama, and saved the world!
Candace: And I've got the proof (She pops open the back lid of the her camera expectantly, but water gushes out and, much to her annoyance, she finds wet film and a fish) Ugh.
Isabella: Sorry about the betrayal, guys.
Ohio: That's okay Isabella, we understand. By the way, does anyone else find it weird that we were saved by an anthropomorphic platypus?
Rhode Island: The world holds many mysteries, but what seems strange to one maybe commonplace to another. The fez was weird though, I mean we're not in Egypt.
(The tugboat sails off into the distance. The words "Madi Rose" are emblazoned on its stern)

End credits
Background scat: ♪ (Dooby dooby doo-bah) X3 ♪
Female Singers: ♪ Perry! ♪
Male Singer: ♪ He's a semi-aquatic, egg-laying mammal of action! ♪
Female Singers: ♪ In a fez! ♪
Male Singer: ♪ He's got more than just mad skill! ♪
♪ He's got a beaver tail and a bill! ♪
Female Singers: ♪ And a fez! ♪
Male Singer: ♪ He's Perry, Perry the Platypus! ♪
Major Monogram: But you can call him Agent P.
Male Singer: ♪ Perry! ♪
Major Monogram: I said you can call him Agent P!
Male Singer: ♪ A-Gent P! ♪



(Scene opens up to Candace staring at Jeremy through the window)
Candace: Oooooh! Here he comes! Oh, Jeremy. How can you even make walking to a bus stop cute? Yeah, I'm a lucky, lucky gal. (a strange object falls from Jeremy's backpack) Oh, no! He dropped something! Jeremy! Jeremy! (runs outside) Jeremy, wait! You dropped-- (bus leaves) wait! (calls Jeremy on her cellphone) Jeremy, you dropped something outside my house, and it kind of looks, uh, artsy.
Jeremy: Sounds like the gift I made you.
Candace: Gift? Well you didn't have to make--
Jeremy: Well we're passing the antenna farm. I'm losing you.
Woman: My fillings are heating up.
Candace: Jeremy? Jeremy? (groans) Oh, what a beautiful tiara... neck, uh, broach... hmm... bracelet! (gasps) Oh, it's absolutely beautiful! (flings it into the sewer) Oops! No! No! No! No! (reaches for the object) Almost got it... (water rushes in and carries the object away)
Man 1: Whoohoo! The Danville clean water flush-off!
Man 2: A million gallons straight to the ocean!
Candace: Oh, you've got to be kidding me! Jeremy will be heartbroken when he finds out I lost my gift! Phineas and Ferb! (runs into the backyard) Hey. What are you guys doing?
Phineas: We built a mind machine to enter Baljeet's subconscious in order to cure his fear of contractions.
Baljeet: You are amputating two perfectly good words and stitching them together. They are the Frankenstein monsters of grammar.
Phineas: We've already cured Irving's fear of the color lavender.
Irving: It can't hurt me anymore.
Candace: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't care about any of that! I lost the gift Jeremy made for me, and you guys have to make an exact duplicate of it before he comes over!
Phineas: We'd love to. What'd it look like?
Candace: Well it kind of had this bolty screwy thing going on, and this wrapped wire like... Oh, I know what it looked like, but I don't know how to describe it!
Phineas: No problem. We can use the mind machine to enter your subconscious and retrieve your memory of what the gift looked like. You don't mind if we fix Candace's problem first, do you, Baljeet?
Baljeet: No, I don't (shudders) Chills! Chills! Hey where's (shudders) where is Perry?

♪Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Eating cereal looks like this! ♪ (Perry enters the building) Ah! Perry the Platypus! You're early, and I'm in my underwear. So embarrassing. And it's the pair of underwear you never want anyone to see you in too. You know the ones. They're faded and frayed, and the elastic is so worn out you have to hold them up while you're  walking around the house. And you have to roll up the waist band, making your pants look all lumpy. And, and yet when you take them off, you find yourself mysteriously putting them in the hamper rather than the garbage. Why- why do you do that? Hey, where are you going Perry the Platypus?! (traps Perry in a net) You know, when you showed up, despite appearances, I was trying to come up with a perfect evil plan to thwart today's Tri-State Area Summit and Weenie Roast, and you just gave me a great idea! What is a man most afraid of? It's being in public and suddenly realizing he's in his underwear! So, I shall construct an Underwear-inator! One blast at the summit, and everyone will be so paralyzed with fear and embarrassment, I can just waltz in and take over. Thank you, Perry the Platypus. Thank you very much!

Phineas: Alright, Candace. You're all wired up. We're ready to go in.
Candace: Wait a minute. Why is that dweeb going into my subconscious?
Baljeet: Because this dweeb spent two weeks in psychology camp last summer.
(flashback to psychology camp)
All: How does that make you feel?
(end flashback)
Candace: Alright, but don't forget about doctor-patient confidentiality.
Phineas: Okay, Irving. We're in your hands now.
Irving: Close your eyes and count backwards from four.
All: Three...two...one...
(On the last word, scene switches to Candace's mind)
Candace: Where are we?
Phineas: We're inside your subconscious.
Candace: Okay, everyone take off your shoes. I don't want you tracking mud in here, metaphorically speaking.
Irving: Mindmaster calling Deep Divers. How you guys doing?
Phineas: We're doing fine, Irving.
Irving: Remember, you have 45 minutes to retrieve the memory before the boyfriend arrives.
Phineas: Copy that, Mindmaster. We need to get to the Forest of Memory.
Candace: So where are we now?
Phineas: Offhand, I'd say the Jeremy Mountains.
(Do Nothing Day can be heard in the background)
Baljeet: Hmm, significant. 
(A rumbling and growling is heard)
Candace: Uh, what was that?
Phineas: Baljeet?
Baljeet: Shh! Do not move a muscle.
Candace: What is it?
Baljeet: It is your id.
Candace: My what?
Baljeet: Your id. The embodiment of your deepest, most primal urges.
Candace: So, fun, right?
Baljeet: Wrong. It is very primitive and aggressive. We do not want to meet it here. (shows gazelles that look like Phineas and Ferb running away from the id) Obviously, you see Phineas and Ferb as some sort of prey.
(The Id roars)
Candace: Run!

Doofenshmirtz: Almost ready, Perry the Platypus, just a few more adjustments. I'm putting an extra ratty setting on the Underwear-inator. So embarrassing! (Perry takes a contact lenses out of his eye and holds it up to the light and tries to cut through the net)

Irving: Calling Phineas and Ferb. Come in, Phineas and Ferb. What's your 20?
Phineas: We copy you, Irving. We're just emerging from the Peaks and Valleys of Fickleness.
Baljeet I cannot believe there is a whole valley in there devoted to your love-hate relationship with ambivalence.
Candace: I have mixed feelings about it.
Phineas: Wow, the Falls of Anxiety.
Falls of Anxiety: Is my neck to long? Is it okay that I wear the same dress everyday? (The falls continues to voice Candace's anxieties)
Candace: What's that?
Baljeet: It is all of Candace's anxieties.
Phineas: There are so... many of them.
Ferb: She has a rich internal life.
Buford: Yeah, she's real messed up.
Candace: Buford?!
(In the real world)
Isabella: What's he doin'?
Irving: He just showed up and jacked in!
(In Candace's mind)
Candace: You can't come in here!
Buford: It's a free country.
Candace: No it's not! It's my head! And you're getting crumbs all over-- cru... all over... cru, cru, cru--
Buford: What's wrong with her?
Baljeet: The anxieties are getting to her!
Phineas: Hurry, everyone! Through the falls! The Palms of Sweatiness!
Baljeet: The Harpies of Hyperventilation!
Candace: Rubber ducks?
Baljeet: Do not ask me! It is your subconscious!
(They disappear through the falls)
Buford: Yeah, I'll catch yous later. I'm keeping my hoagie dry.
Isabella: Hey, Buford.
Buford: Hey, Isabella. You just get here?
Isabella: Yep.
Buford: Let me show you around. This place is a riot!

Doofenshmirtz: (sniffs) Do you smell something burning? What are you doing?! Give me that! Got it! What is this, a tiny magnifying glass? Oh, you think you're so fancy with your high-tech spy equipment. (He crushes contact lenses) What are you going to do now? Huh, Perry the Platypus? Huh? (laughs) (Perry takes out the other contact lenses)

(Song: Deep Into Your Mind)
♪ We're going deep into your mind ♪
♪ Never know what we will find ♪
♪ Repression, aggression, your embarrassing obsession ♪
♪ Would make Freud annoyed but don't be paranoid ♪
♪ We're going deep into your mind! ♪
♪ We're going deep into your mind! ♪
♪ Were you traumatized by squirrels? ♪
♪ Or a little girl with curls? ♪
♪ Do you fear the number seven? ♪
♪ Does a zebra call you Kevin? ♪
♪ We're going deep into your mind! ♪
♪ Your psyche will unwind ♪
♪ Was there a monster 'neath your bed? ♪
♪ A fear of moldy bread? ♪
♪ Or just a Giant Floating Baby Head? ♪
♪ Going deep into your mind. ♪
Phineas: Here we are Candace, the Forest of Memory.
Candace: How will we find Jeremy's gift?
Phineas: Well, we shouldn't have to walk too far since it's a recent memory. What's the last thing you remember?
Candace: Hmm... the last thing I remember is saying, "How will we find Jeremy's gift?"
Phineas: Well we shouldn't have to walk too far since it's a recent memory. What's the last thing you remember?
Candace: Oh, I forgot it already.
Phineas: No problem. This should be deep enough. Everybody just feel around. Maybe we can stimulate Candace's memory.
(They begin to scratch at the trees in the Forest of Memory)
Candace: That makes my head all buzzy. Wait, wait a minute, wait! I'm remembering! Yes, yes, I see it! Over there, through the trees! That's it!
Jeremy: That's what?
Candace: Jeremy? Wait, are you real?
Jeremy: Yeah. I stopped by your house to give your present and Irving just told me to jack right in.
Candace: My present? How could you? I lost it. But I found the memory. It's right over there.
Jeremy: That? That's not your present. That's my drain unclogger. I don't know why I carry that around with me.
Candace: So I didn't lose your-- (id comes in and roars)
Baljeet: That is the id! Run!
(Buford is shown to be giving a tour of Candace's subconscious to Isabella, Holly, Ginger, Gretchen, and Katie)
Buford: And if you follow me now, you'll see Candace's recurring nightmares. Come on, people. Try and stay with the group. (they see everyone running from the id) Hey, where are they going? (he sees the id and screams)
Doofenshmirtz: (as Perry escapes from the trap) Ironic, I built my Underwear-inator while actually in my underwear. Ha! (Perry attacks him and the Underwear-inator fires up)
Id: (as children are running away from it) Clubby Momo!
Buford: You all signed the releases, right?
Id: Phineas and Ferb!
Doofenshmirtz: Ow! (Underwear-inator hits Perry) Ha! You look ridic-- (Underwear-inator hits Doofenshmirtz) Ah! Moth holes?!
Norm: Who wants lobster bisque? (Underwear-inator hits him) Get it while it's hot! (Perry disassembles the Underwear-inator)

Phineas: Irving! Get us out of here now!
Irving: Roger, over! (Underwear-inator hits him) Ahh! Lavender! Ahh! It had to be lavender!
(Irving runs from his station)
Phineas: Hello? Irving? Hello?

Doofenshmirtz: (as Perry is disassembling the Underwear-inator) Curse you, Perry the Platypus! You know, those, those really work for you.

Baljeet: I cannot believe I turned down a trip to the community pool for this!
Candace: She's growing! What do we do?
Phineas: One of us has to wake up and extract the others!
Baljeet: I am trying to wake up, but I can't! Ahh! Oh! I feel a shock!
Phineas: That's it! Let's all shock Baljeet awake with contractions!
Candace: Isn't!
Isabella: Won't!
Phineas: It's! Don't!
Isabella: Hasn't!
All: Ain't!
Baljeet: Ahh! That is both a contraction and grammatically incorrect! Ahh! (he wakes up)
Irving: (running around in circles) Lavender! Had to be lavender!
Baljeet: The... wires... must... pull... them... out... with... no muscles.
Candace: I don't think I can run anymore!
Phineas: Don't give up! Baljeet will save us!
Isabella: I'm getting tired, too!
Ginger: That's it! I'm dead meat!
Gretchen: Gretchen is out! Peace! (Candace falls, causing everyone else to fall)
Candace: I'm really complicated and weird. (everyone gets eaten by the id and wakes up)
Ginger: That was great! Let's do it again!
Irving: Not me!
Isabella: I wish I had my camera!
Baljeet: Wait until they hear about this at psychology camp!
Phineas: Goodbye everybody!
Candace: Wow, I guess that was a lot of trouble to go through for a drain unclogger.
Jeremy: Yeah, by the way, here's your real gift. (hands Candace a bracelet)
Candace: Jeremy, it's beautiful! I really love it. Thank you. Wait, hold on. Where's Buford?
(In Candace's mind)
Buford: (to id) I don't care what Freud said about your selfish need for satisfaction. You're alright with me.
(id growls)



(Scene opens up showing Mr. Slushy Burger while Jeremy and Candace are talking on their phones)
Jeremy: So, Candace, you made a teddy bear out of baklava?
Candace: Yeah, bears like honey. Bakalva's made with honey. (tastes some of her baklava bear)
Jeremy: (on phone) Oh, so it's like a statement?
Candace: You think it's weird, don't you?
Jeremy: No, not weird, it's just-- (a customer walks up) Oh, wait, I got a customer, Candace. I'll - I'll call you later, okay?
Candace: (hangs up) He thinks it's weird. Why is it that when Phineas and Ferb have an idea, everyone's like (deep voice) "Oh, wow, you guys are really clever!" (normal voice) And when I come up with something, everyone goes "What? Did you say something, Candace?" (picks up the baklava bear, now covered with ants) Oh you know what I'm talking about, baklava bear. Ew! (after seeing the ants, she quickly throws the bear onto the ground)
Phineas: Hey, Candace. Have you just seen a chicken wearing a baseball hat run by here?
Candace: No, why?
Phineas: It was his turn to bat and-- (notices the ants harvesting the broken baklava bear) Ooh! Are you still using these ants?
Candace: Those aren't my ants! Do whatever you want with them. (goes inside the house)
Phineas: Look, Ferb. Wouldn't it be great to be part of an ant society? They're so efficient and productive. They're like tiny "us-es". Hey, speaking of us, where's Perry?

(Switches to Perry's lair. Perry enters to find Carl, an angry Major Monogram, and a broken screen)
Major Monogram: Sorry, Agent P. Your monitor is on the fritz today...thanks to someone who isn't aware that croquet is an outdoor game.
Carl: Again, sir, there was nothing on the box to indicate--
Major Monogram: Anyway, let's get this show on the road, shall we? (Carl hoists a cardboard replica of the screen and stops it with a rock) Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been collecting some extremely unusual items the last few days. Uh, some of the odd purchases include—Carl, where are my inserts?
Carl: Oh, sorry, sir. Do that last bit again.
Major Monogram: (while he is speaking, Carl holds up images of each items) Some of the odd purchases include: biomolecular components simply used to make organic computers, a giant pilgrim hat, and most curious of all, a huge pair of food booties, used on the end of turkey legs for decoration. You know, Carl, I really like working live, it reminds me of my days in the theater group back at...The Academy.
(Flashback)
(people booing)
Man 1: Francis, you stink!
Man 2: Get off the stage!
(Flashback ends)
Major Monogram: Anywho, Dr. Doofenshmirtz is up to something sinister. Find out what it is and report back. Monogram, out. Carl, fade out. (Carl pushes a button on a remote which turns the room pitch black, and the only things visible are the eyes of Agent P, Carl and Major Monogram) Man. You can go now, Agent P. (he does so) Okay, Carl. Turn on the lights. (pause) Carl? (man laughing manically) Stop it, Carl.
Carl: That wasn't me.

(Switches to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, gape in awe at the sheer spectacle that is...the Antius Maximus!
(Ferb unveils the prototype version of the said invention, as a fly hits it)
Buford: Heh, more like the Anti-Cli-maximus. (elbows Baljeet) Hehheh, yeah?
Baljeet: (sarcastically) Yes, I got it.
Phineas: Oh that was just a scale model to get the investors interested. This is the real thing.
(screen pans over to the real version of the Antius Maximus)
Baljeet: Woah!
Isabella: How did we miss that?
Phineas: And right over there is Ferb's resize-nizer.
Baljeet: What does that do?
Phineas: Well, you find an anthill and then, you add a scoop of it to the pot. Then, the ant Resize-inizer will rain enlarging fluid onto the dirt pile, and cause the ants to move towards the large synthostatic light, making them bigger. Then they continue to the Antius Maximus, the perfect place for the larger ants to live. In no time, we should have an ant farm filled with giant ants. Or Gi-ants.
Isabella: (she and Baljeet applaud) Nice one!
Baljeet: Oh, Clever wordsmithing, good sir!
Phineas: Thank you.
Buford: Oh, fine. And I just get an eye-roll for Anti-Climaximus?
(Switches to Candace in her room)
Candace: Oh, what the heck is that thing? (walks out) Oh, I'm gonna go tell Mom.
(Switches to the exterior of the Antius Maximus, everyone is wearing headbands with ant antennae)
Phineas: In order to move amongst the ants without upsetting them, we need to douse ourselves in ant pheromones. It's sort of like ant cologne, which will make them think that we're one of them. But not too much! We don't want them getting too friendly! (presses a yellow button)
Buford: Bum bum bum...
Baljeet: Stop it, Buford.
(A pink gust of ant pheromones covers everyone, and an orchestral chord stings. Everyone but Phineas and Ferb scream and cough)
Buford: It smells like my grandma's house!
Isabella: Why does your grandmother's house smell like ant pheromone?
Buford: Have you met my grandma?
(They go inside)
Isabella: Let's go see what the ants think of our new cologne.
Phineas: You know what I like about our friends? We say things like "We're gonna douse you with ant pheromones" and they're just like "Okay, whatever". They're so cool!

(Switches to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, where Perry uses his grappling hook to climb to the top of the structure and gets trapped in a pilgrim hat)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha! (opens the buckle door) Perry the Platypus?
(Perry nudges his head down to a point where part of his face is visible)
Doofenshmirtz: There's my guy. Why the Thanksgiving-themed trap, you may ask? You know how you get all and lethargic after you eat Thanksgiving dinner? Well, it's not because you're really full and, you know, slightly out of shape. It's because of all the tryptophan in the turkey. Now imagine, if the turkey were say the size of...a car or a building, there would be no resisting the tryptophanicle level of nature's little sleeping potion. That—is why—I created: the Turkey-inator! (pauses for dramatic effect) Wait, can you—can you see it from that little door, or do I have to move the hat, or—you're good? You're good. With this, I will fly over the city turning things into turkey all willy nilly, then—no one will be able to resist the all of that perfectly cooked turkey, goodness. And once the tryptophan cooks in, I'll take over the Tri-State Area with ease! Won't that be trypto-fun? Heeheehee. You know, "tryptophan", trypto...it's...you know, like...I'm wasting all this wordsmithing on a platypus.

(Switches to the Garcia-Shapiro house)
Linda: (offscreen) Candace, you know Wednesday is my Famous Statues Life Drawing class. (she is dressed as the Statue of Liberty) This had better be important...
Candace: Mom, Phineas and Ferb are building a huge glass and sand thing in the yard, it looks like a giant ant farm, but I don't know what it does!
Linda: Candace, please--
Vivian: (offscreen) Hold still, Linda!
Linda: (through teeth) Look, Candace, this is just gonna have to wait until I can take a break.
Candace: But Mom, they're abusing their liberty! Don't you find that ironic?
Linda: Not enough to act upon right now, dear.
Candace: (leaving) Okay, fine.
(Switches back to Evil Incorporated)
Doofenshmirtz: So long, Perry the Platypus! Next time you see me, I will be the indisputable ruler of the Tri-State Area! (flies off on his inator) And when I say "indisputable", I mean totally disputable! Wait, no, no that doesn't work, I mean...uh-uh-putable! I-I mean puta—no. Eh, the moment's gone.

(Switches to the exterior of the Antius Maximus)
Candace: Phineas and Ferb, let me in! (pushes button; gets covered in ant pheromones) Ew! What the heck is wrong with this doorbell?! Hello? (pushes button again; gets covered in more pheromones) Ow! Oh, it got in my eyes! (pushes button once again; gets covered in more pheromones) Hellooooo?! (presses it three more times) Ugh, it tastes like Buford's grandmother's house! That is it! (goes inside Antius Maximus) When I lay my hands on them, aha! (while inside) Phineas and Ferb, you are soooo buuuu... (seeing giant ant) bu......bu...buggy? Yeah, uh, you know what? (chuckles) This is the wrong giant ant farm. I'm just gonna head out, okay? But being a job on the whole digging thing, really. Okay? (sees another ant) Oh, hello, yeah, take it easy.
(Song: "Ants")
♪ (Ants...)
Candace: (sees more ants) (chuckles) I-I guess I can stay for a little. Ha! No need to crowd, okay?!
♪ Livin' in an ant society (Ants...) ♪
♪ With ants much bigger than you and me (Ants...) ♪
♪ Diggin' in tunnels, it's a crazy scene (Ants...)♪
♪ With soldiers, drones and one big queen ♪
Phineas: Cool!
♪ (Ants...) ♪
♪ Ah, you can spend your lives in here, it's great ♪
♪ We can lift 10 times our body weight ♪
♪ (Ants...) (4x) ♪
Phineas: Hey, I wonder where they're going?
Baljeet: Probably to see their queen.
Phineas: Good idea! Let's go see the queen! (seeing Candace in throne) Wow. Candace? You're queen?
Candace: You know, you should really fix that doorbell. I must've pressed it like 10 times, and all it did was squirt sticky stuff on me.
Phineas: The pheromones! Oh, that's why the ants think you're their queen! So, what's it like to have millions of ants at your beck and call?
Candace: Oh, it's great. Finally, someone understands my ideas. Only, they keep bringing me crumbs and grasshopper legs. I could really go for a salad. (an ant goes to make a salad) And you think, they'd have a fancy queen dress, or something. (another ant goes to make a dress)
Phineas: Hey, I wonder where are they going? (all but Candace exit)
Candace: Hey, get back here! What's the point of being queen if you're all alone?! (eating crumbs) Say, these bread crumbs aren't bad!

(Switches to the Turkey-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Time to start my Turkey Takeover! Commence random firing! (the Turkey-inator hits the following items: a passenger train that turns into turkey wings, a mailbox that turns into a turkey wing, which is eaten by two mail carriers, a cooked turkey, Perry's trap that turns into a turkey leg, in which Perry is led to escape) This is great! With Perry the Platypus out of the way, I can finish my sentences without getting punched in the-- (Perry punches him in the face mid-sentence)

(Switches to the interior of the Antius Maximus)
Phineas: Candace! You've gotta see what the ants are up to! I think you really made an impression on them.
Candace: So, what'd they do?
Phineas: Well, you asked for a salad and a queen dress, so first, they evolved from a hunter-and-gatherer society, to an agrarian society. Look, they mastered farming in less than 10 minutes.
Baljeet: Then, they put it all together to make you this salad. There are still grasshopper legs in it, but other than that, it is not bad.
Phineas: Then, three minutes ago, they had an Industrial Revolution. Check it out! They're weaving the fabrics needed to make a dress for you!
Isabella: Wow, Candace, you're probably the most progressive Ant Queen ever!
Candace: This is so cool! I should call Jeremy and tell him. (looks at cell phone) Oh, there's no service in here. Nice. (at three of the ants) You there! Make there be cell service for your queen!
Phineas: You think that's a good idea?
Candace: Oh, like you'd never tamper with the delicately balanced, yet awesome power of nature.

(Switches back to the Turkey-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Perry the Platypus, take that! And that! (gets head stuck in control board) Oh! Oh, man, that's disgusting! Still, it can't be the first time someone's got their head stuck in a turkey.

(Switches to the Antius Maximus)
Candace: Soooo, how are my subjects doing?
Phineas: Shouldn't be long now. It looks like they entered the information age.
Baljeet: They are really into online gaming now! Hey, who cast a sleep spell on me and stole all my gold? Ugh!
Phineas: Now that everything is automated, they have more time to devote for fun.
(the ants are seen playing arcade games)
Candace: Fun?! What about my cell service? Get back to work, you lazy ants! Your queen commands it!
(The ants kick Candace out)
Phineas: Huh, would you look at that? Apparently, they've advanced beyond the need for a monarchy!
Ant: (bangs gavel) Motion carried.
Candace: Fine! If I can't be queen, then it's busting time!
(inside...)
Phineas: Hey, guys. Why is it so quiet in here?
Baljeet: The ants have left.
Isabella: They said something about needing to find themselves.
(the friends walk outside to see the ants levitating)
Phineas: Oh, cool!
Ant: Greetings, Phineas. We have achieved total enlightment, and have transcended the need of maternal things, like ant farms.
Phineas: Wow! Good for you!
Ant: Our new colony will traverse the galaxy in search of the fabled Picnic Planet.
(the Turkey-inator hits the Antius Maximus, turning it into an over-sized cooked turkey)
Oh, good, turkey! We can take that with us as an in-flight snack! Goodbye, Phineas and Ferb.
(the ants leave, taking the turkey with them)
Phineas: Goodbye! Have a good time evolving past the need for physical existence!
Candace: (dragging Linda into the backyard) As you'll see, the ants are the size of humans! (realizes it isn't there) Ta-da?
Linda: Oh, yes. I see. (at Phineas, Ferb, and their friends) Greetings, human-sized ants.
Phineas: Hi, Mom!
Candace: No! There were actually ants the size of people! (puts crown on head) See?! I was their queen!
Phineas: Yeah, Mom. Candace inadvertently caused the ants to evolve.
Candace: Exactly, and I was their queen!
Linda: Wow, Candace. Just like on Mars. (walks away waving)
Candace: I was—I -- Oh, forget it, I'm gonna go call Jeremy. (walks off, cell phone in hand)
Phineas: (to Ferb) Do you think the ants will return some day?
Ferb: Yes. Probably while we're having a picnic.

(Switches to the Turkey-inator, where Doofenshmirtz's head is still stuck in the control board)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, be a dear and help a brother out. Can't seem to -- (Perry takes the control board off his head) Oh! Oh, thanks. (Turns around) No! What are you doing?!
(Perry points the control board in such a way, the Turkey-inator hits itself, turning it into an over-sized turkey. He then escapes, via para-sail, before the turkey catches fire while falling towards the street.) Curse you, Perry the Platypus...! (When hitting the ground, the turkey forms a massive explosion.)
Doofenshmirtz: (groans) I feel like a giblet.

End credits
(Song: "[[Ants]"])
♪ Livin' in an ant society (Ants...) ♪
♪ With ants much bigger than you and me (Ants...) ♪
♪ Diggin' in tunnels, it's a crazy scene (Ants...)♪
♪ With soldiers, drones and one big queen ♪
Phineas: Cool!
♪ (Ants...) ♪
♪ Ah, you can spend your lives in here, it's great ♪
♪ We can lift 10 times our body weight ♪



♪ Doofenshmirtz in his underwear! ♪
(Scene begins at D.E.I. with Doofenshmirtz in his apartment, standing in his underwear, socks, and shoes, while an inator fires up behind him.)
Doofenshmirtz: I can't believe it! Just moments away from finally achieving full control of the Tri-State Area!
(Camera pans to Perry, dressed as a butler, running on a hamster wheel. After a few minutes, he smiles evilly.)
And I owe it all to you, Perry the Platypus, my trusted butler.
(Camera then pans to Carl's wrist communicator, lying on a nearby table. A swollen and bloated Monogram is shown on its monitor.)
Major Monogram: I won! I won!
(A trapped Carl, wearing a squirrel costume, grabs his wrist communicator and looks at it worriedly.)
Carl: No! Why didn't you listen?! Why?!
Doofenshmirtz: Quiet, you! I will not let you ruin this moment of pure joy!
(Right after he said that, Phineas and Ferb's invention crashes through the ceiling.)
Computer: Joy located.
(Li'l Saul and the Breakingham Palace Crew jump out as the invention lands on the ground.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, my gosh! Everybody, it's Li'l Saul and the Breakingham Palace Crew!
Li'l Saul: Oy, poi, poi and a deetle, deetle, deetle!
(Breakingham Palace Crew starts dancing as a boombox plays music.)
Doofenshmirtz: (Dancing) This party's gonna be off the hook!
(Linda opens the door; the camera pans to Doofenshmirtz dancing then at Carl.)
Carl: It's not how it looks!
Linda: (enters the apartment) Uh, I think this is your... hat. I'll just be leaving now.
(Linda gives Carl the fedora, backs out of the apartment, and then closes the door.)
Well, this day couldn't get any weirder.
(Her cell phone rings and she sees that it's Candace.)
Well, I'm about to be proven wrong. (at Candace) Hi, Candace.
Candace: (In backyard) Mom! Mom! The cheese mountain remains, but the people have fled en masse!
Linda: (Getting into elevator) What are you talking about? What people?
Narrator: 5 minutes earlier.
(in the backyard)
(People runs out of Cheesetopia screaming from the swollen-up Monogram.)
Major Monogram: Come back! Wait! High five! Hey, don't leave me hanging!
Candace: (Talking on phone) Mom! Cheese! Huge! Scary! Home! Now!
Major Monogram: High five!
Candace: What happened to that guy?
Narrator: 15 minutes earlier.
(At D.E.I.)
Carl: (Talking to Monogram via wrist communicator) Sir, I think Agent P is working for... Sir? (Sees Monogram about to eat cheese in a contest at Cheesetopia) No! Don't do it! Don't do it!
(The cheese-eating contest begins and Monogram starts eating cheese and swelling up) No!
Doofenshmirtz: (Snatches Carl's wrist communicator and placing it on the table) We'll have none of that, Mr. Squirrel Man. Besides, you're too late.
Ever since Perry the Platypus quit your agency to become my butler, I have been freed up to create my ultimate inator, the Vaporizer-inator! With my mind now clear, I stumbled upon a scientific fact.
(Images show on screen behind Doofenshmirtz as he talks.)
Every object on Earth, when heated to a certain temperature, evaporates! With this, I'll be able to vaporize things at will, and create all kinds of mayhem! I'm a genius! (At audience) For realsies this time. (At Perry) Now, to your station, Perry the Butler!
(Perry begins to run on the hamster wheel, starting up the inator.)
Get ready, boys! When this baby powers up, it's gonna get hot in here!
(Rips off lab coat, leaving him in just his underwear, socks, and shoes.)
Carl: (Looking away) Happy place! Happy place!
Doofenshmirtz: Let's find our first target. How about... all the sand at the beach! (Sees that nobody is at the beach.) Wait. Hey, where is everybody?
Narrator: 25 minutes earlier.
(at the Flynn-Fletcher home where a tarp is covering something big.)
(Many people are either in a line or in the backyard.)
Phineas: Wow! I think this is the biggest turn-out we had all summer. Eh, Buford?
Buford: Yep. It couldn't get any cheddar than this.
(Phineas, Isabella and Baljeet start applauding wildly at him)
Phineas: Oh, bravo! Bravo!
Baljeet: How do you keep coming up with them?
Phineas: Showtime, Ferb!
(Ferb removes the tarp off the invention, revealing Cheestopia.)
Crowd: Ooh! Ooh!
Phineas: (At crowd) Cheesetopia is now open!
(People all cheer, hurry inside, and celebrate and play on all the different cheese-related activities inside.)
(Song: "Cheesetopia")
♪ My fever starts to climb up above hundred degrees ♪
♪ When I fly through the breeze with ease upon my cheese trapeze ♪
♪ They know the cheese with ease-box squeeze, that is my expertise ♪
♪ Cheesetopia! Cheesetopia! ♪
♪ Your cheese in wildest dreams become reality, ♪
♪ Your fantasies of melted cheese up to your knees ♪
♪ Please try some cheddar peas and taste the Gouda cheese ♪
♪ Cheesetopia! (Cheesetopia) ♪
♪ Ahh Cheesetopia (Cheesetopia) ♪
♪ Ahhh! ♪
Phineas: It's like Utopia, with cheese!
Major Monogram: (In Cheesetopia, looking around.) Cheese? Cheese?
Isabella: Our cheese eating contest is about to begin!
Major Monogram: Cheese!
Carl: (Via Monogram's wrist communicator) Sir! Oh, why isn't he answering?
(Scene shifts to D.E.I.)
Oh, Agent P. If only you had your hat.
Narrator: 20 minutes earlier.
(Carl hangs onto the balcony of Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc. with Perry's fedora, but it eventually floats away.)
Carl: Shoot!
(Song: "Perry's Hat")
♪ Perry's hat, floats on the wind ♪
♪ I wonder where it is going? ♪
♪ Is there a head, it will anoint? ♪
♪ Is this herring red or a plot point? ♪
♪ Perry's hat ♪
(Perry's fedora lands at Linda's feet, and Linda immediately picks it up. She then looks up and notices Carl as he hangs onto the balcony.)
Linda: That squirrel man dropped his hat. I should return it. I wonder what's he's doing up there.
Carl: Oh, well. I've got to find out what happened to Agent P.
(He gets into the apartment and hides behind something. Perry, who is busy dusting, notices him.)
Carl: (gasps; then ducks down)
(Perry tugs on Doofenshmirtz's pants then points with the feather duster.)
Carl: (shudders; runs off)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, and I just sprayed for squirrel men. (Doofenshmirtz activates a trap that Carl runs into.) Well, now, it appears that fate has dumped our mysterious guest like an immense pile of assorted "cheeses" onto the "lawn" of my evil lab. (pause) Yeah, I know it's a strange metaphor, but I stand by it.
Carl: Oh, Agent P, what have you been up to?
Narrator: 25 minutes earlier.
(Agent P is seen doing multiple tasks while Doofenshmirtz is seen experimenting, finishing with Perry taking the trash out.)
Doofenshmirtz: Very good, Perry the Butler. The trash chute is right down the hall. (gasps; notices Agent P's fedora lying on the ground) Hey wait, you forgot... (Picks up fedora) Oh, look at this thing, huh? Such memories! All the adventures, the excitement, the pummeling, the thwarting... Oh. You know, I'm feeling rather sentimental about it. (Tosses Perry's fedora off the balcony) Oh, well!
(The fedora floats through the air and lands outside of Squirrel Con, where Carl and other people are standing in line.)
Man in Squirrel Costume: Man, am I pumped for Squirrel Con!
Carl: Yeah! With everyone in costume there won't be any baleful looks of judgement. (Picks up Perry's fedora) Hey, this is Agent P's hat. There must be something wrong. (Calls Monogram through his wrist communicator) Major Monogram, we have a problem. (Shows Perry's fedora to Major Monogram) Look!
Major Monogram: Well, that doesn't look good. You can clearly see your zipper in the costume!
Carl: No! Agent P's hat.
Major Monogram: Oh, well, then, maybe you should look into it.
Carl: Me? Like a real agent? Yes, sir!
Major Monogram: As for me, I'm off to Cheesetopia! (Shows Carl a Cheesetopia poster.) It's Utopia, with cheese!
Carl: Sir, you remember what happens when you eat cheese?
Major Monogram: Uh, I've been cleared by doctors. Anyways, good luck, Carl.
Carl: Yes! Squirrel Con will have to wait!
Man in Squirrel Costume: Poor guy. I finished my deliveries early so I wouldn't have to miss this!
Narrator: 6 hours earlier.
Man in Squirrel Costume: (In delivery truck, with squirrel costume next to him) Last delivery of the day!
Phineas: (Behind truck, directing as truck places lots of cheese on the lawn) Okay! Just dump it right there like a caged guy in a squirrel costume! (At Ferb, who's standing next to him) What? I stand by that metaphor. (At Baljeet) All right, Baljeet, I need you to help Ferb with the foundation!
Baljeet: (Rolling a cheese wheel as Ferb balances on it) I am on it!
Phineas: Isabella, you and the Fireside Girls spread the word!
Isabella: (Salutes; is standing with other Fireside Girls as they all hold giant piles of pamphlets) Girls, get ready to get our Flyer Delivery Patches!
Adyson: (As they walk off) Again?
Isabella: Is there something you'd like to say, Adyson?
Phineas: And Buford, keep the cheese puns comin'!
Buford: (Sitting on a pile of cheese, eating) Sounds Gouda to me!
Phineas: Excellent!
Buford: (Sniffing) All right, who cut the cheese?
Baljeet: (As he and Ferb cut slices of smelly cheese, wearing gas masks) Sorry.
Narrator: 2 minutes earlier.
Candace: (Talking on phone while sitting in front of her computer) And then I typed in LOL, but it came out LOP, and Jeremy thought I meant... (sniffs the air) What's that smell? I'll call you later, Stacy. (Hangs up and looks out window, seeing cheese delivery.) Cheese, huh? That warrants a call to Mom! (Perry flies by on his jet-pack as she begins to dial.) What was that?
Narrator: 10 minutes earlier.
(Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, and Baljeet laugh as Buford looks triumphant.)
Phineas: Ah, cheese. (Noticing Perry's disappearance) Hey, where's Perry?
(Perry falls into the seat in his lair, looking at the monitor.)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. (Perry realizes the camera is zoomed in very close on Monogram's face.) Sorry about the extreme close-up. Carl's off today, and for the life of me I can't figure out how to work this thing. Anyway, we have reason to believe Doofenshmirtz is up to no good. Again, since Carl is out, I'll have to do the visual reference myself. (clears throat; begins to draw on pieces on paper, showing his pictures to Agent P.) He's recently purchased a small tux, a silver tray, and a pair of white gloves. Heh heh, I traced my hand for that one. Ooh, check this out! (Monogram draws details of a turkey on the hand.) Look, it's Agent T! (Perry glares then looks up in shock; Monogram leans down) What, too soon?
(Perry flies out of a hole in the ground using his jet-pack, crossing in front of Candace's window as he goes. Monogram, back on the lair monitor, sniffs the air.)
Major Monogram: Cheese?
Narrator: 15 minutes earlier.
(Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Buford, and Baljeet stand in the backyard.)
Phineas: Why cheese?
Buford: 'Cause cheese is cool no matter how you slice it! (Sees no one is reacting.) What, am I provolone on this?
Phineas: No, I guess it's as good an idea as any. Nice cheese puns, by the way.
Buford: That's nothin'. I've already got a whole list of 'em.
Phineas: Besides, with the change in plans, we had nothing else prepared.
Isabella: Yeah, what did happen to your first invention?
Narrator: 5 minutes earlier.
(Candace runs up to Phineas and Ferb's original invention, which is sitting in the backyard. She is yelling to her mom, who is leaving off-screen.)
Candace: Wait, Mom, don't leave yet! Li'l Saul and the entire Breakingham Palace Crew are in here! (Knocking on invention) Come on, I know you're in there, Saul!
Computer: (Beginning to shake) Joy located.
Candace: Uh...
Li'l Saul: (As invention flies away) Oy, poi, poi, poi and a deetle deetle deetle!
Candace: (Calling back to her mom) Never mind! Have fun running errands!
Phineas: (Walking in the backyard with Ferb and his friends) But Saul and his crew were unemployed, and so I finally found them full-time in my celebration-seeking rocket. It hones in on joy, activates, and is guaranteed to kick any party up to an 11! Hey, where'd it go?
Candace: Now ya know how I feel. (walks away)
Ferb: Well, wherever it landed, I hope they can handle a party of that magnitude.
Narrator: Back to the present.
(Doofenshmirtz's apartment is now filled with people dancing along with Li'l Saul and the Breakingham Palace Crew.)
Doofenshmirtz: I'm not sure I can handle a party of this magnitude! (At Perry) Either way, we've got enough power for the inator now, Perry the Butler, you'd better tend to the guests.
(Perry gets off the hamster wheel and begins serving drinks to people, then stops by Carl's cage.)
Carl: Agent P, (spills the drink on Perry's tux) how could you have turned to the dark side? How could you have forsaken all that's good and right to be that maniac's butler? You don't belong in that uniform! You belong in this hat! (Carl takes Agent P's fedora and puts it on Perry's head, who looks at it, confused.) See?
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus! You have grape juice on your shirt. I can't have my manservant looking like a street urchin. You should go clean up before it sets. (Perry gives Carl the fedora back and walks away.) Ugh, it's so hard to get good help these days, even when you ride 'em like a bicycle.
(Carl looks at Perry's fedora worriedly. Meanwhile, Perry walks into the bathroom and begins to clean off the stain. He opens up his shirt to see "I Fight Evil" written backwards on his chest. He flashes back to earlier in the day, when Doofenshmirtz had Perry trapped in his Butler-inator.)
Doofenshmirtz: (As the Butler-inator takes measurements of Perry) When my Butler-inator is finished with you, not only will you have a perfectly-tailored uniform and wig, but you'll actually think you are my butler! You won't even remember that you fight evil for a living!
(As Doofenshmirtz's last line echoes, Perry writes "I Fight Evil" backwards on his chest, which reflects on the Butler-inator's mirror in front of him. Back in the present, Perry, minus the wig, gloves, and tux, bursts out of the bathroom, grabs his fedora from Carl and puts it on. Doofenshmirtz is busy dancing with the Breakingham Palace Crew.)
Doofenshmirtz: Man, you really kick this party up to an 11, man! (Perry knocks Doofenshmirtz to the ground.) Perry the Platypus, what's gotten into you? (Perry shows him the words on his chest.) "Thait I live"? What's that, some new band? (Perry grabs a mirror and Doofenshmirtz gasps.) Oh, "I fight evil"! Very clever. You wrote a note to yourself in the future. (Perry jumps at Doofenshmirtz again and begins to drag him across the floor.) I would not have predicted that.
(At the Flynn-Fletcher house, Linda has just pulled into the driveway. Candace is there to meet her.)
Candace: Mom! Mom! Mom! Cheese! Cheese! Cheese!

(Long horror sting. At D.E.I., Perry hits Doofenshmirtz into the Vaporizer-inator, which shoots off into the backyard, causing Cheesetopia to evaporate just as Candace pulls Linda into the backyard and gestures proudly, eyes closed.)

Linda: Candace, you know, we do have a nice backyard. (At this point, Candace opens her eyes) Although, I never noticed that cheese smell before. (walks away)
(Candace just stays there, staring.)
(Scene shifts to D.E.I.; Perry throws a chair into the Vaporizer-inator, causing it to break and have the lights at the party shut down.)
Doofenshmirtz: My inator!
Li'l Saul: (Looking at the joy meter on Phineas and Ferb's invention) Oy, the joy. It drops. Time for us to go already!
(Li'l Saul and the Breakingham Palace Crew jump into the invention and it takes off.)
Li'l Saul: (As the invention flies away) Oy, poi, poi, poi and a deetle, deetle, deetle!
Man at party: Well, no Saul, no ball. Let's split. (All the people at the party begin to leave.)
Doofenshmirtz: (Lying on the ground) Wait, wait. I was just about to break out the bubble machine! (Perry flies out of the building on his hang glider with Carl hanging from his feet as Doofenshmirtz yells after them.) Curse you, Perry the Platypus! And you, too, large squirrel man creature hybrid thing!
(Phineas and his friends walk into the backyard.)
Phineas: Huh. Who would've thought a high-fiving swollen guy would've scared everyone off like that? (Everyone notices Cheestopia is gone and gasps, running over to where it used to be.)
Isabella: I don't get it. Cheesetopia was just here!
Buford: Huh, that's Swiss-picious! Well, I did it! A hundred cheese puns! (Seeing Perry walk up to them) Oh, and look, there's Perry! (Buford looks at the audience and bows.) And, scene.

End credits
(Ferb removes the tarp off the invention, revealing Cheesetopia.)
Crowd: Ooh! Ooh!
Phineas: (At crowd) Cheesetopia is now open!
(Song: "Cheesetopia")
♪ My fever starts to climb up above hundred degrees ♪
♪ When I fly through the breeze with ease upon my cheese trapeze ♪
♪ They know the cheese with ease-box squeeze, that is my expertise ♪
♪ Cheesetopia! Cheesetopia! ♪
♪ Ahh Cheesetopia (Cheesetopia) ♪
♪ Ahhh! ♪
♪ Cheesetopia ♪
Phineas: It's like Utopia, with cheese!



(Scene opens up with the Flynn-Fletcher house in view)
Linda: Phineas? Ferb? Hey, boys. So, what's on the agenda for today?
Phineas: We though we'd do something classic and take Perry for a walk in the park.
Linda: He does need the exercise. Well, I'm heading to the store to pick up some things for dinner. I'm thinking spaghetti and meatballs, or a spaghetti-meatball. That's spaghetti and meat mixed up into a big ball. It's less of a choice of foodm than a choice of shape. Don't forget to bring a doodie bag for Perry! (leaves)
Phineas: We won't! (to Ferb) Hey, where is Perry?
(Scene shows the hose on the side of the house, Phineas and Ferb's bedroom, and the basement. Back on P&F)
Phineas: You know, Ferb, we should build a Perry. For occasions like this, when we're Perry-less. A giant anamatronic Perry with flashing eyes, fiberglass bill and... (Ferb holds up a blueprint of the Perrytronic 3000) Judo flipping tail action? Ferb, you anticipate my every need.
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry is flying on mechanical bat wings)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P, and welcome to our new Evil Science Readiness Program. You just keep circling Doof's building, and the second Doofenshmirtz is ready to begin his scheme, you'll be there. It doesn't leave a lot of time for friends and family, but -- we feel the dramatic decrease in response time could well be worth it.
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: What is he doing up there, just flying around in circles, uhh. It gives me the creeps! Well, it worked out in my favor anyway because, turn, close latch, I'm finally ready to begin my scheme!
(Perry knocks Doofenshmirtz to the ground, but flies into a birdcage)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha! You want to be a bird? Is that what you want? Well, this is what we do with birds, we put them in a cage. Can you speak, little birdy? Hello? Say, "Hello, Perry want a cracker." (Perry bites his finger) Ow! Bad bird! That would not have happened to me if I was smarter, which brings me to my new inator. The Duplicator-inator 2! You know what they say about two heads are better than one, right? Well, I will duplicate my head, and become twice as smart! And look, I even did some recycling by using my old microwave oven. (opens door) Baked potato? Eh, maybe later. (closes door) All my life I've been a zero, but when I have two heads, I'm gonna be twice that! You'll see!
(Perry chatters)
(Cut to backyard, everyone is working on the Perrytronic)
Phineas: Too steely-eyed, Isabella! Less focus!
Isabella: Whoops! (separates the eyes) How's this?
Phineas: Perfect!
Buford: (oiling the feet) Sure, you get the fun part. If I wanted to oil feet, I could've stayed at home.
Baljeet: (peeks out of the belly) When we are done with this, what will it do?
Phineas: Unlike a real platypus, which doesn't do much, the Perrytronic 3000's capabilities will be limitless!
(Candace is watching them through her bedroom window)
Candace: KEEP IT UP! DON'T STOP, BUSY BEES! YOU'RE BUSY, BUSY, BEES!
Stacy: What are you doing?
Candace: WORK! WORK! WORK! WORK!
Stacy: All right, I'm out of here. You lost it. (starts to leave)
Candace: No, wait! (brings Stacy back) Okay? There is a madness to my method.
Stacy: You've got three seconds.
Candace: Everything Phineas and Ferb build -- disappears when they're finished. So if I can keep them from finishing the thing they're building, it will never disappear! I call it Busy Bee Busting. B. B. Busting, for short.
Stacy: You know what? I'll see you, La-La-Later. (leaves)
(back to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, let's try this. (fires the inator at his head and laughs) At last, I am --
(The Doofenshmirtz head falls to the ground and screams)
Doofenshmirtz head: Don't just stand there, pick me up!
(Doofenshmirtz picks the head up)
Both: Well, hello, handsome!
(Back to the backyard)
Phineas: Looks like we're done!
Candace: What? No! What are you talking about, "done"?
Phineas: Well, the tail glaze is almost cool, so we just figured we'd test her out and then close the book on this one.
Candace: Test, yes. Close book, no!
Phineas: Okay, I guess we could consider this a sort of preliminary test before the real test.
Candace: Sh'ya! Now preliminary test his heap, and back to work. And what is this thing, anyway?
(The Perrytronic starts up)
Phineas: Don't worry! The theme song will explain everything!
Candace: Theme song?
(The Perrytronic takes off and Candace runs away screaming. The background becomes sepia-toned as the Perrytronic flies.)
(Song: Perrytronic)
♪ Tronic! ♪
♪ He's a mutant robot from a kid's backyard ♪
♪ Perrytronic! ♪
♪ His parts are shiny and his metal is hard ♪
♪ Perrytronic! ♪
♪ He can assume any form ♪
♪ Hang on, I'm gonna backpedal ♪
♪ There's one caveat, It must be big and metal ♪
♪ Perrytro-o-o-o-o-onic! ♪
♪ He can't be kitten or a little block of wood ♪
♪ Perrytronic! ♪
♪ Not sure if he wanted to even if he could ♪
♪ Perrytronic! ♪
♪ So let me recap so that this is all settled ♪
♪ He can transform into anything that's big and metal ♪
♪ Perrytro-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-onic! ♪
(The Perrytronic returns to the backyard and the background colors return to normal)
Phineas: It tested perfect! Looks like we're are done!
Candace: Oh, no, you're not! Can it bake a pie? Can it train a seal? Can it give change?
Phineas: Wow. She's right, guys. We're not nearly done!
Candace: All right, you busy bees, you're back on the clock! (whispering) B. B. Busting. (normal, on phone) Hello, Mom?
(Linda is at the Super Food Stuff Mart)
Linda: Yes, Candace? I just checked out, I'm on my way home, now! (doesn't notice her purse left on the counter)
(At D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: I don't understand, I really thought two heads were better than one, you know, for the thinking. But I can't think of anything!
Both: Maybe we need a break. We keep doing that! I know, it's so funny! Ahhh! we did it again! And again!
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, knock it off. Let's play with our inator for a while!
(A ray from the inator hits a table with vase, cloning it)
Doofenshmirtz head: (chuckles) Now, this is fun!
Doofenshmirtz: I know, right? (laughs)
(a desk chair and shower head are cloned)
Doofenshmirtz head: Look! Two more heads. Ha ha! Look at Perry and his little arms, aren't they adorable?
Doofenshmirtz: You're right, let's make more.
(they laugh while cloning Perry's arms, making another)
Doofenshmirtz head: Oh, look! A little arm that can move around on its own, (the arm frees Perry) It's got its own volition. I did not expect that. Wait, you dummkopf! Look what you've done! (the arm attacks him)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, who's the Dummkopf now, Dummkopf?
Doofenshmirtz head: Hit him! Hit him!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, good idea! (repeatedly fires the ray at Perry, cloning his arms)
Doofenshmirtz head: Not with the ray, you nincompoop! Oh, point that somewhere else!
Doofenshmirtz: (turns the inator around) Like this? (repeatedly fires ray) How is this helping? I don't understand your logic.
(Back to the backyard, one of the rays misses the Perrytronic)
Candace: Mom? Where are you now?
(switch to Linda)
Linda: I just pulled up the driveway.
(back to Candace)
Candace: You guys are still working, right?
Phineas: Just taking a break before we install the chicken incubator.
Candace: Mom, look in the backyard, now!
(switch to Linda)
Linda: Hang on, let me put the groceries away.
(back to Candace)
Candace: Ee-ee-ee-ee... (at the kids) Don't. Stop. Working.
(Candace runs to the kitchen, Linda is not there)
Mom!...Mom, you're not in the kitchen?
(switch to Linda)
Linda: No, I'm just shutting the front door!
(back to Candace)
Candace: I need you in the kitchen. Mom?
(switch to Linda)
Linda: In the bathroom, putting away soap!
(back to Candace)
Candace: How did I just miss you? Mom? (to Phineas and Ferb) Work, work, work! (to Linda, knocking on door) Mom, come out of the bathroom, quick!
(switch to Linda)
Linda: Nope, I'm in your room! You said you needed tissues.
(back to Candace)
Candace: But how did you -- okay, I'm on my way. (goes upstairs, sees the kids) Put that lemonade down! You're not done yet!
(In Candace's room)
What the -- Mom, you're not in my room!
(switch to Linda)
Linda: I'm back in the kitchen.
(back to Candace)
Candace: (watching the kids) Okay. Listen very carefully. Look. Out. The window.
Linda: (from the phone) Oh, my goodness!
Candace: Ee-ee-ee-ee...yeah? Yeah?
(switch to Linda)
Linda: We really need to paint that fence!
(back to Candace)
Candace: ...What? That's all you have to say?!
Linda: (from the phone) Hang on, Candace. My other line is ringing!
Candace: How could she not notice that?
Linda: (from the phone) Candace, that was the supermarket. I left my pocketbook there. I'm gonna run over and pick it up.
Candace: Mom, no! (runs out, but is too late) Mom! Oh, no, I'm too...too...two houses?!?
(reveals a duplicate of the Flynn-Fletcher House)Okay, I did not see that coming. Phineas and Ferb, this has to be their work.
(Switch back to D.E.I. Perry motions to his arms to attack Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh...distract them for me!
Doofenshmirtz head: Yeah, I'll give them a licking they'll never forget!
Doofenshmirtz: Good one!
Doofenshmirtz head: Thanks! (a few of the arms tickle him, he laughs) That tickles! Quit it! (grunts)
Doofenshmirtz: (runs up to the inator but the arms pull him back) Noooooooo! Oh, you guys are so annoying. You're kinda cute, though. (two of the arms punch him) Get off!
(Perry gestures to two of his now-cloned tails to attack Doofenshmirtz)Tails? What are they gonna do, wag me into submission? Well, you're too late, Perry the Platypus!
(Doofenshmirtz zaps his head with the inator, cloning six more Doofenshmirtz heads)Heads, I win, tails, you lose!
Doofenshmirtz head 2: Really? That's the best you got?
Doofenshmirtz head 6: Kinda obvious.
Doofenshmirtz head 7: Juvenile.
Doofenshmirtz head 4: I liked it.
Doofenshmirtz heads 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7: You would!
Doofenshmirtz: You know, you guys are kind of annoying, too. GET HIM! (tosses heads at Perry)
(The heads yell as they fly, but Perry's heads and tails charge at them)
Doofenshmirtz head 2: You guys get phantom pains? I got a heck of one in my elbow right now.
(The arms and tails attack the heads, two heads grab Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha ha!
(Perry whistles, one of the arms bounces off his tail to press the self destruct button on the inator)(gasps) NOOOOO!
(The arm disappears)
What? It just -- vanished? What's wrong with this thing? (looks at the microwave timer, it says "3:00") Oh, the microwave was on the "baked potato" setting, so I guess everything is just gonna last for three minutes. My bad!
(Back to the Flynn-Fletcher house, Linda arrives)
Candace: Mom, Mom! Mom, get ready to have your eyes opened wide!
Linda: Just a sec, hon.
Candace: (turns around and gestures toward second house with eyes closed) Look!
(The second house disappears, Candace's eyes open wide as mentioned)
Candace: But...but but but but but...
Linda: Oh, when are they ever going to build something in that empty lot? (leaves)
Candace: Wait! I don't have to "but, but, but". I have the Perrytronic 3000! (runs off) Mom?!
(Back with Doofenshmirtz, fighting with two of Perry's arms)
Doofenshmirtz: (grunts) Ooh, I hate you, you little green -- (the arms punch him and disappear, he punches himself) Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. I don't have to do this anymore. (at Perry) Well, we still have you surrounded, Perry the Platypus.
Doofenshmirtz head 2: Hey, that disappearing thing's not gonna happen to us, is it?
(Doofenshmirtz heads 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7 disappear)
Doofenshmirtz head 5: Yeah, a microwave timer. Great idea. (disappears)
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, that's unfortunate.
Doofenshmirtz head: You're telling me?
(Back at the Flynn-Fletcher house, Linda is making the "spaghetti-meatball")
Linda: "Step 4: Insert spaghetti into meat".
Candace: (barges in from backyard) Mom, Mom, Mom! This time it's for keeps. Turn around, and look in the yard.
Linda: But I have to inject the cheese. Just let me finish.
Candace: No, I can't let you finish! They might be finished!
Linda: OH! I'll just order a pizza! All right, Candace, let's see what you've got...
(With Perry, he grabs a golf club)
Doofenshmirtz head: Not the golf clubs, NOT THE GOLF CLUBS! (screams) SAVE ME!
Doofenshmirtz: There's a pun here, I know it.
Doofenshmirtz head: (continues screaming)
(Perry jumps over the Doofenshmirtz head)
Doofenshmirtz: He looks teed off! That's what it was! (turns around) Huh?
(Perry begins smashing the inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, no! My inator!
Doofenshmirtz head: We've got to do something.
Doofenshmirtz: You're right. (throws the head) Go get him.
(the head bounces off the inator and Perry fires it, the head bounces across the ground)
Doofenshmirtz head: Ouch! Ouch! Ow! Ow! Oh! Why couldn't I have disappeared before I hit the ground? Curse -- (disappears)
Doofenshmirtz: What? Now, I'll never know what he was going to say! (the inator explodes, Perry flies away) Oh, yeah, yeah, that.
(Back at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: Ee-ee-ee-ee...
(the final ray from the inator hits the Perrytronic, cloning it. The second Perrytronic hits the ground, causing them to flip in circles out of the backyard and down the street. Linda brings Candace out)(with her eyes closed) Say hello to Perry --
(We hear chatter as Candace opens her eyes and looks on deadpanned. Her perspective, the real Perry is in front of the kids)
Linda: Hello, Perry. (to Candace) Okay, that was a nice change of pace. (to the kids) Who wants pizza?
Phineas/Buford/Isabella: Me!
Baljeet: I do!
Linda: Then, maybe ice cream sandwiches, ice cream cut in the shape of a sandwich.
Ferb: Just pie for me, please.
Candace: Okay, now I have to "but, but, but".

End Credits
(standalone broadcasts only)
(Song: Perrytronic)
♪ Tronic! ♪
♪ He can assume any form ♪
♪ Hang on, I'm gonna backpedal ♪
♪ There's one caveat, It must be big and metal ♪
♪ Perrytro-o-o-o-o-onic! ♪
♪ He can't be kitten or a little block of wood ♪
♪ Perrytronic! ♪
♪ Not sure if he wanted to even if he could ♪
♪ Perrytronic! ♪
♪ So let me recap so that this is all settled ♪
♪ He can transform into anything that's big and metal ♪
♪ Perrytro-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-onic! ♪



(The scene opens with the Flynn-Fletcher house in view)
Phineas: Well, Perry, as soon as I send in your photo you'll be a contestant in the Totally Tools spokes-animal contest. (looks at Perry) What do you say boy? Ready to be a spokes-animal?
(Perry chatters)
That's the spirit! (does some typing) And send. (pushes a button on keyboard)
(Phone rings and Phineas answers it)
Hello?
(Phone Murmurs)
Perry won!
(At the Danville Community Center)
Mandy: Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Stop the Busting Retreat, a one-day seminar to teach us all to use sisterly restraint. And today, we welcome our newest member, Candace Flynn. Candace, this is Anne, Sunisa and Danielle.
Candace: (waves a hand) Yeah, hi.
Mandy: What we like to do now is a little exercise. We'll start with you, Anne. (clicks a button on a remote) This is your picture of your brother turning your mother's flower bed into a swimming pool. What do you do?
Anne: Well, being a non-buster, I'll probably go to the mall and get a mani-pedi.
Mandy: Good! (at Candace) See how it's done, Candace? (clicks button again) Think you can do that?
Candace: Ha! Are you kidding? Just try me.
Mandy: Okay, so, (clicks button for the third time) you see your brothers making a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, You...?
Candace: Well, being a non-buster, I wouldn't bust them for making a sandwich. But I'd bust them for making a sandwich when it's 5:30 in the afternoon, and we'll all be having supper in a half-hour! They'll ruin their appetites! They are so busted!
Mandy: Okay, who here can tell me where Candace's approach could use a little improving? (Everyone except Mandy raises their hand) Candace, put your hand down.
(At the Totally Tools Headquarters)
Manager: Okay, welcome to Totally Tools. Now, where is that contest-winning platypus of yours? (gasps) Oh, will you look at him. Oh, and he sits up, too! Who says they don't do much? Brilliant! But sitting up isn't enough. He has to say, "Totally Tools". (pause) I got nothing. What do you guys think?
Phineas: How about a hat?
Manager: Brilliant!
Phineas: Ferb, I know we're gonna do today. We're gonna put a hat on Perry. (places a hat on Perry's head)
(Song: Quirky Worky Song)
(A quick montage of Perry wearing various hats)
Manager: Hang on a minute. Wait, go back two.
(Quirky Worky Song plays backwards for two seconds.)
Manager: Brilliant! (picks up Perry, now wearing a... fedora) Nothing says Totally Tools like a platypus in a fedora. Boys, he's got a lot of work to do. (hands Perry to Phineas) Get busy!
Phineas: Come on, Ferb. (runs off with Ferb following him)
Manager: Those boys are brilliant!
Assistant: Sir, your 10:30 balloon is here.
Manager: Brilliant!

(In Perry's lair, Monogram is on the monitor looking through some papers when the phone beeps. He pauses and then pushes a button.)
Major Monogram: Mmm, hello?
Doofenshmirtz: (off-screen) Francis! Hi, it's me, Heinz.
(The screen splits and Doofenshmirtz shows up on the right side of the monitor.)
Doofenshmirtz: Have you seen Perry the Platypus?
Major Monogram: Dr. Doofenshmirtz, that information is highly classified and strictly confidential.
Doofenshmirtz: You have no idea where he is.
Major Monogram: Not a clue.
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, thanks!
Major Monogram: Oh, hey, hang on. Say, what kind of an evil scheme you got going on there today?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, it isn't so much an evil scheme as much as a childish prank, but I've invented a Mustache-inator! (pause) It gives people big, bushy, ridiculous-looking mustaches. Because, as we all know, there's nothing sillier than a big, bushy... (chuckles nervously) All right, uh, uh... But hey, you know, it looks good on you!

(At an auditorium, Phineas and Ferb are on a stage getting ready to reveal something.)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, today we give you the new face of Totally Tools, (blue curtains opens) Perry the Platypus!
(audience cheers)
Man in audience: Yeah! Nothing says Totally Tools like a platypus in a fedora.
(Montage)
(At Totally Tools Headquarters, where the buildings now all have a billboard on them)
Manager: Boys, this campaign of yours has really put us over the top. What else you got?
Phineas: Well, Ferb came up with an idea for an exploding billboard.
Manager: Brilliant!
(The trio leaves; Perry goes into agent mode, puts on his fedora, and opens a window all while looking to see if they're coming back. He then notices a blimp advertising Totally Tools. Using his grappling hook, he hitches a ride on the blimp.)
Boy: Hey, look! It's a Totally Tools publicity stunt.
Man: Nothing says Totally Tools like a platypus in a fedora hanging from a blimp!
(Perry jumps then falls into a chimney pipe.)
(Perry's lair; he enters it through a tube and lands on his chair. Monogram is back on the monitor and has unsuccessfully shaved his mustache off.)
Major Monogram: Oh, hello, Agent P. We have a situation. With all these new billboards up all over town, you've become too recognizable to be a secret agent. So we had to send Agent S to Doofenshmirtz's in your place. I'm sorry, but you're going to have to go on hiatus until your 15 minutes of fame are up.
(Perry salutes then sadly walks away)

(Back at Totally Tools Headquarters)
Manager: I gotta tell you, boys, our president, Tom Totally, thinks you're doing such a brilliant job!
(Perry, back in pet mode, walks towards him, Phineas, and Ferb)
He wants you to take the rest of the day off.
Phineas: Sounds great. (at Perry) Oh, there you are, Perry. We can spend the rest of the day with you for a change.
(Song: Let's Spend Half a Day)
♪ (Hey! Hey!) ♪
♪ I don't wanna sound half-hearted ♪
♪ I think you already know (Know, know) ♪
♪ I couldn't be there when we started ♪
♪ But that was half a day ago (Ago, ago) ♪
♪ We could share half a cheese sandwich ♪
♪ Or take in half a view ♪
♪ Or we could make it halfway through the zoo! ♪
♪ Oh, baby! ♪
♪ Let's take half a day to be together ♪
♪ Let's make half a day last forever ♪
♪ Let's take half a day to make our dreams come true, yeah! ♪
♪ Let's spend half a day with you! ♪
♪ With you! (Whoo!) ♪
♪ Yeah you! (Hey! Hey!) ♪
♪ With you! ♪

(D.E.I.; Doofenshmirtz's lying on a couch pretending to use the Mustache-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Pew! A handlebar. Pew! A pencil thin. Pew! Fu Manchu!
(knocking on door)
Well, now, who could that be? All right, already! (walks to the door) This better be important, or you are gonna get such a mustache...
(door gets knocked down)
(exclaims fearfully) Wait a minute. (pulls out magnifying glass from lab coat) Hmm, what do we have here? Oh, no, it's Sergei the Snail!
(Doofenshmirtz then proceeds to use a trap door and a cage, but with no luck.)
Hmm, well, this should be easy. You've fallen for my trap! (cackles) Huh? You may have survived that trap, but let's you escape the cage! Ha-ha! Oh, for Pete's sake! Will nothing stop you?

(Meanwhile, Candace and Mandy are at the park trying out a contraption)
Candace: Okay, this is quite a jump from group affirmations. How is this contraption supposed to help me resist the urge to bust my brothers?
Mandy: It's a positive reinforcement machine. When you ignore your busting impulses, you get a reward. Let's try it out.
You go out in your backyard and find that your brothers have built a rocket ship. What do you do?
Candace: Well, I'm just gonna... I ignore it?
Automated voice: Ooh! Who's a good girl? You are the good girl. Yes, you are.

(D.E.I.; Sergei the Snail is now trapped in a ring of salt)
Doofenshmirtz: There! That ought to hold you. Lucky thing Mrs. Thompson had some salt I could borrow. (chuckles) Yeah. Yeah, consider yourself "a salted". Ah, man, I'm writing that one down. And now, to business. See that guy there with the beard?
(Camera pans to a man reading a newspaper on a nearby bench. Doofenshmirtz fires the Mustache-inator and the man now has a mustache.)
Pew! (cackles) Actually, that was kind of a letdown.

(At the park, Phineas is holding back a red ball)
Phineas: Fetch the ball, Perry!
(Phineas throws the ball and Perry follows it to a tree. Just then, the wristwatch communicator on Perry's left wrist beeps. Perry quickly goes into agent mode then hides behind the tree.)
Major Monogram: (on wrist communicator) Agent P, Doof found Agent S's weakness. We need you to drop everything and return to duty.
(Perry looks around the tree, then there's a close-up of Monogram giving the sad puppy look)
I know we gave you some time off, but could you please come back in to work? (pleading) Please? (normal voice) I can't hold my eyes like this much longer.
(Perry puts his fedora back on, narrows his eyes, and then runs off)

(Back with Mandy and Candace...)
Mandy: Now, Candace, your brothers have issued a gold-based currency which has seriously devalued the euro. What do you do?
Candace: (laughs) I do nothing!
Automated voice: You are the good girl, yes, you are!
Candace: Wow, you were right. This is quite a machine. Where did you get it, anyway?
Mandy: Phineas and Ferb made it for... (covers her mouth with a hand)
Candace: What did you say?
Mandy: N-n-n-nothing. (screams)
Candace: Phineas and Ferb, why do you always build these things? It's impossible to bust you for everything! It's not my job! Not my job! (realizes) Not my job?
Mandy: Candace, you had your breakthrough! (hugs Candace) I'm so proud of you.

(Back at D.E.I.; close-up of Doofenshmirtz holding the Mustache-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha! Did you see that? I just put a mustache on that dog's...
(Camera pans to Perry with arms akimbo standing next to the trapped Sergei the Snail.)
(gasps) Perry the Platypus, you're back!
(Camera pans back to Doofenshmirtz.)
What a guy! Not so famous you can't stop by to trounce an old nemesis, are you, huh? But you can't!
(Doofenshmirtz walks to Perry and Agent S holding a manual)
It's against the O.W.C.A. by-laws. (puts on reading glasses)
(While Doofenshmirtz continues talking, Perry frees Sergei the Snail from the salt trap. The snail agent then makes his way towards the evil scientist.)
And I quote, "No additional agents are allowed to thwart any single evil scientist if said first agent assigned is still well and able to carry out his duties." And though surrounded by salt, Sergei the Snail is technically still "on duty," so as long as I have him trapped, you can't touch me! It's all here in black and and... Whoa! Whoa! Whoa!
(Despite his size, Agent S proceeds to use some martial arts skills on Doofenshmirtz.)
(after hitting a wall) Ow, that snail is dynamite!

(At a bus stop, Candace, Mandy, Anne, Sunisa and Danielle are in a huddle)
Candace: Well, ladies, thanks for everything.
(A bus with a Totally Tools billboard on it pulls up to the bus stop)I feel like... (notices billboards) Uh, Perry? Perry? Perry? .... Oh, my gosh, the boys have created an enormous ad campaign around our pet platypus!
Mandy: Uh-oh.
Candace: (inhales deeply) Sisters, I know what you're thinking, but rest assured, this new Candace that you see before you will not react like the crazed little girl that crawled in here just this morning.
Mandy: Good for you, Candace!
Candace: For now, I am, and will always be, an older sister who is positive and mature.
Mandy: That's right, Candace.
Candace: And I am absolutely 100% positive that I have to bust my brothers. I can see it in your eyes! You know I'm right! Sisters, will we bust our brothers?
Mandy: Yes!
All: Yes, we will!
Candace: Sisters, repeat after me. Bust! Bust! Bust...
All: Bust! Bust! Bust!.... (repeats)
(Candace gets on the bus, which then drives away)
Mandy: (stops chanting, realizing something) Whoa, whoa, whoa! What just happened?

(At D.E.I., Agent S finally has Doofenshmirtz "pinned" down on the floor)
Doofenshmirtz: Just for the record, Perry the Platypus, I was thwarted by Sergei the Snail, not you! You don't get any credit for this.
(Camera pans to Perry, who just used the Mustache-inator)
Hey, what are you doing?
(Mustaches appears on all the Totally Tools billboards)

(At Perry's lair, Monogram is once again on the monitor, this time playing with his lip)
Carl: Uh, sir, you're playing with your lip again.
Major Monogram: Oh, I can't help it, Carl. I miss the old duster.
(A ray from the Mustache-inator zaps the monitor and his trademark mustache appears on it)
What the..? (at Carl) Hey, Carl! It's back! Look how great it... (moves; realizes the mustache isn't on his face) Oh. (taps the screen) Oh, doggone it!
(Back at D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, that was interesting. You defaced yourself. (pause) I didn't see that coming. To be honest, you have lost me completely.
(Perry uses the Mustache-inator again and a ray zaps a mustache on Doofenshmirtz's face)
Hey! (stammering) Wow, I look just like my grandfather, Jose Doofenshmirtz. I mentioned him before. It's... it's a weird story. I'll tell you later. You know, after I shave.
(Perry uses a wrench to destroy the Mustache-inator)
Hey, what are you...
(Perry then leaves using his hang-glider.)
Oh, curse you, Perry the Mustachioed Tool Spokespus!

(At Totally Tools Headquarters)
Manager: But, Mr. Totally, I have no idea who put those mustaches on those posters. It wasn't my fault!
Mr. Totally: I want every one of these ad torn down totally! They're mocking me!
Manager: Yes, sir. Yes, sir, all torn down. Brilliant! (crashes) Trash can!

(Just after Candace left the bus and runs toward home, a crane comes to remove all the billboards. She barely notices as she runs)
Candace: Oh, they are so busted!
(She reaches home to notice a giant billboard)
Okay, how she missed that one is beyond me.
(In the attic...)Mom! Mom! Mom!
(Linda, in full Scottish clothing, is playing the bagpipes while Lawrence, wearing a kilt and inflatable legs, dances a reel. The inflatable legs pop, much to Linda's surprise.)
Linda: Well, I guess that answered the inflatable legs question. (at Candace) Now, what is it, Candace?
(Candace drags Linda down the stairs and pushes her out the door)
Candace: Look and see for yourself! You won't believe it!
Linda: Candace...
(Outside)
Candace: Okay, now, look up there! (points toward the billboard)
Linda: I'm astonished.
Candace: Yes! Finally!!
Linda: "Nothing says Totally Tools like a snail in a fedora."
(Camera cuts to show the giant billboard with Sergei the Snail on it in place of Perry. Throughout the next line, Candace turns and sees it, her mouth drops in horror)It makes me want to run right out and buy some tools. (at Candace) Now, if you'll excuse me, I had better get back to the attic before your father blows up another pair... (Inflatable legs burst off camera) Oops, too late. (runs off) I'm coming, dear! And I have the patch kit.
(Camera shows Candace as she stays where she is, mouth open, dumbfounded)

End credits
(Song: Let's Spend Half a Day)
♪ Oh, baby! ♪
♪ Let's take half a day to be together ♪
♪ Let's make half a day last forever ♪
♪ Let's take half a day to make our dreams come true, yeah! ♪
♪ Let's spend half a day with you! ♪
♪ With you! (Whoo!) ♪
♪ Yeah you! (Hey! Hey!) ♪
♪ With you! ♪



(In the backyard, Phineas and Ferb are jumping on a trampoline)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb! Wouldn't it be great...if there were trampolines...everywhere you went?
(Ferb stops in mid-air)
Phineas: Wow, Ferb! Incredible hang time!
Ferb: (Pulls out small device) Personal anti-gravity device.
Phineas: That gives me an idea. I know what we're gonna do...today!...Hey... (bounces and activates anti-gravity device) Where's Perry?
(Perry walks down the stairs to the basement and jumps through the middle step parachuting into his lair)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. Doofenshmirtz was spotted this morning leaving this building with a shopping list. On the list were four items: eggs, vitamins, ice and leeks. Innocent enough until you realize, it is a recipe for...evil. Get out there and make sure he never serves that dish.
(Perry salutes and rockets out)
(Scene shifts to the kitchen)
Candace: Whoa. Did you just feel something?
Linda: Morning, hon.
Candace: Mmm, that smells good. I'll get the plates out.
Linda: Well, put out ten, because I was talking to Jeremy's mom earlier, and we thought it would be fun to get us all together for brunch this morning.
Candace: Wait. So the whole Johnson family, and our whole family, together?
Linda: Yeah!
Candace: Mom, this is the first time both of our families have formally gone together!
Linda: Honey, relax. It's just a casual brunch. No big deal.
Candace: No big deal? I'm Jeremy's girlfriend! We have to make a good impression! Breakfast is easy! This is brunch! Brunch! That's so fancy! Mom, what does this frittata say about us as a family?
Linda: There's nothing wrong with my frittata.
Candace: And a frozen orange juice?! Really?! (dumps orange mix into a pitcher of water and pants) I can't breathe. Where do we keep the paper bags?
(Linda goes over to the window and opens it)
Linda: (at Phineas and Ferb) Hey guys, I know you ate earlier, but you wanna join us for brunch?
Candace: No! No! No! They'll embarrass me!
Phineas: Aw, we can't mom, we're on our way to the hardware store to pick up some extra parts.
Linda: Okay two less plates then.
Candace: Good! Is this house even clean enough for this? (Picking up a few magazines) Let's see, monster trucks on the bottom, book review on top. That should impress 'em. (She looks out the window, and sees Phineas and Ferb's personal anti-gravity device) Oh no! No! No! That is hideous! What the heck did the build out here? (Reading) "Anti-gravity maximus" Oh I have got to get rid of this thing. (She begins to pulls it away, but the machine zaps her, making her float in the air) Oh no. No! N- Ahh! Phineas and Ferb! Not today! Not now! If Jeremy's parents see me like this, that's the end of me seeing him. Come on there's got to be a reverse switch on this thing.
(At the hardware store)
Phineas: Excuse me sir, Where do you keep the reverse switches?
Store employee: Right behind ya'. Next to that guy buying self destruct buttons.
Doofenshmirtz Aw sweet, fifty cents off with coupon.
(The doorbell rings at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: Oh my gosh. They're here.
Linda: Candace, my hands are full, can you get the door?
Candace: I'm on it mom. (Candace works her way across the lawn, keeping herself grounded to the best of her ability)
(At the front door Jack Johnson, Mrs. Johnson, Jeremy, and Suzy all wait for Candace)
Jeremy: Well, Suzy. Are you excited to see Candace.
Suzy: Yes. I love Candace.
(Candace finally makes her way to the door)
Candace: I'm coming. Just a few more feet. (she opens the door for the Johnson family) Jeremy, and the whole family, welcome to our humble dwelling.
Mrs. Johnson: Good morning Candace. Where's your mom?
(Candace stops holding onto the door for support, in favor of using Mrs. Johnson)
Candace: She's in the kitchen Mrs. Johnson. It's right through there.
Mrs. Johnson: Okay, here we go.
Candace: Oh, it's just so nice to see you, I just can't stop hugging you.
Phineas: Anytime you're ready Ferb.
Isabella: (As she walks into the back yard) Hey Phineas, what'cha doin'?
Phineas: Hey Isabella. We're blasting this pile of trampolines with an anti gravity machine. So we can bounce all over town.
Isabella: Why not blast ourselves with anti-gravity?
Phineas: Well, then we couldn't bounce. Blast 'em Ferb.
(Ferb fires the Anti-gravity Maximus, making all the trampolines float up into the air)
Phineas: Come on guys, Follow me!
Buford: (With a tear in his eye) It's beautiful!
Baljeet: Buford?! You are crying!
Buford: (He removes the tear off his eye and puts it on Baljeet) No, I'm not, you're crying!
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
Doofenshmirtz Recording: Good morning Perry the Platypus. I had to step out for a moment, but please, help yourself to some gnosh. Eggs, vitamins, ice, or leaks. I have no idea what you platypuses eat, but whatever you do, don't destroy my new evil -inator. (Perry takes a nearby sledge hammer and go to destroy the -inator, however, Perry's feet get trapped in braces) A-ha! You're trapped! A-hahahaha Sucker!
Doofenshmirtz: Do you like it Perry the Platypus? It's my new Tell-the-Truth-inator! One blast from this baby, and people will be forced to tell the truth. It features an Abe Lincoln robot. He doesn't actually serve any functional purpose, he just decoration. He's, he's thematically linked to honesty. Y-You know through his nickname "Honest Abe". But enough about me, let me ask you this. Have you ever wondered what it is that holds the fabric of society together? No it's no cooperation, or trust or any of that stuff hippies want you to believe, it's lies. All the little white lies we tell each other. For you see Perry the Platypus...
(Song: "Lies")
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Lies are the glue that hold society together ♪
People lie about their mileage, they lie about the weather ♪
They lie to spare each other's feelings ♪
They lie to stay in bed ♪
They lie to feel important, about all the books that they've read ♪
Woman: You look good in that hat.
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Lies! ♪
Man: I don't think you have too many cats.
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Lies! ♪
Man 2: Your hair looks nice when it's up like that.
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Lies! ♪
Lies, lies, lies! ♪
Woman 2: Oh dear, the house looks great.
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Lies! ♪
Blay'n: You haven't put on any weight.
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Lies! ♪
Woman 3: Oh, I thought you said eight.
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Lies! ♪
♪ Lies, lies, lies! ♪
♪ People say that it's all right ♪
♪ They're only trying to be polite ♪
♪ But even though they're little and white ♪
♪ They're lies ♪
♪ Yes, everyone says it's alright ♪
♪ And I don't want to start a fight ♪
♪ But you know the ties that bind us tight are ♪
♪ Lies! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Did ya' hear that high note? That was the A above middle C, not too shabby.
Linda: Candace will you pour the OJ?
Candace: Sure Mom. There's got to be something heavy in here. (She finds a wrench, and shoves it in her shoe, weighing her down somewhat) OJ, did you now that stood for Orange Juice, cause I didn't. Well, its not fresh, but it was an impromptu brunch. Brunch cross between breakfast and lunch, makes you wonder what a late night snack would be. A lack? How about a rack? Cross between dinner and snack, anyway... Haha, enjoy.
(Meanwhile the gang bounce around on the floating trampolines to the tune of the "Quirky Worky Song")
Baseball Announcer: It's a beautiful day for a ball game!
Doofenshmirtz: (On his flying platform) But it won't be a beautiful day for long. Not after they all start tell the truth about each other. I'll start with that hotdog guy down there. Wait 'till the world hears what's in those things. And fire!
Vendor: Hotdogs, get your hotdogs! (He gets zapped) They're aren't really any hotdogs in here, I just wanted to get into the game for free.
Doofenshmirtz: Huh, I didn't see that one coming. Let's just see what the players have to say.
(He shoots the catcher)
Catcher: Here comes a fastball.
Batter: Thanks pal. (He hits the ball sending it flying, up to where Doofenshmirtz is, and knocking the Abe Lincoln robot)
Baseball Announcer: And it's out of here!
Abe Lincoln Robot: Malfunctioning. Loyalties shifting.
Doofenshmirtz: Let's see what embarrassing truths that women who's holding that unusually large hand mirror has to say. (He fires, but the rays bounces back and hits Doofenshmirtz) Secretly I'm very lonely. Where did that come from?!
(In the garage)
Phineas: How 'bout some lemonade?
Candace: (bursts into the garage) There you are, this is all your fault! That machine of yours has made me lighter than air!
Isabella: I just mentioned that, I thought it would be so fun to--
Baljeet: Not a good time for that.
Candace: I'm trying to make a good impression on Jeremy's parents, (Suzy peeks around the garage door, and listens in on the conversation) and I can't even keep my feet on the ground!
Phineas: I guess we should install that reverse button now. We wouldn't want you bouncing off the ceiling during brunch.
Ferb: That would be a little rough on the old frittata.
Candace: Just hurry before I make an even bigger fool of myself
Abe Robot: It is all together fitting and proper that I must destroy Doofenshmirtz.
(The robot comes towards Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: No! Get back! Ahhh!
Abe Robot: Must destroy Doofenshmirtz.
Doofenshmirtz: (While hiding behind Perry) He's gonna John Wilkes my Booth! (a beat) What, to soon?
(The Abe Robot continues to chase Doofenshmirtz, and Perry takes out a screwdriver, and begins to free himself)
Candace: So, Mrs. Johnson, it's so great to talk to each other like adults. (Suzy crawls under the table, and pulls out the wrench weighing candace down) Just me and you talking all adulty and stuff, and (Candace notices her leg has floated up) WHOA! (She floats up entirely, just managing to hold onto the table) Ahh! Just doin' a little yoga stretching to help this digestion, yep.
Linda: Good thing she's wearing her skort.
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, do something! He's going to emancipate my proclamation!
(The Abe Robot throws Doofenshmirtz off of the platform, fortunately for Doofenshmirtz, he lands on one of Phineas and Ferb's trampolines, and bounces back up)
Doofenshmirtz: (While bouncing) What's up Honest Abe? Looks like the old Doofster's a little too, smart for y-- (The Abe Lincoln robot grabs Doofenshmirtz from the air) Oh, hehehe, hi, you.
Candace: (Still hanging on by the table) Hahaha! Did I ever tell you I'm thinking of taking gymnastics next year? Haha!
Jeremy: Awesome.
Suzy: (Still under the table) Gymnastics? How about aerobatics?
(Suzy grabs a spoon, and begins to pry Candace's finger off from the table)
Candace: Ow! Ow! O-Oh my gosh. Well, uh, that's enough gymnastics for now. (She manages to sit back down, and wrap her leg around the char, grounding herself)
Suzy: Candace, can you juggle with this?
Candace: No! put that down. Suzy that's my 1984 collectable Ducky Momo plate, where they printed the entire design upside down. It's priceless.
Suzy: Mmm, oh whoops. (She throws the plate)
Candace: (In slow motion) Noooooo! (She manages to catch it with her mouth, while keeping herself from floating away, by grabbing onto Mrs. Johnson's Head with her feet)
Linda: Candace Flynn, what has gotten into you? I want the truth, and nothing but the truth.
Candace: The truth?
Doofenshmirtz: No! No! Get off!
Abe Robot: Honest Abe Lincoln Smash!
(The robot smashes the control panel for the platform, causing it to fly around, with no control)
Doofenshmirtz: Now look what you've done. We're out of control!
(Perry finally frees himself, and uses his parachute to escape)
Candace: Well... the truth is...
(Suzy gets hit with a stray beam from Doofenshmirtz's -inator)
Suzy: I've been trying to make Candace look bad all morning!
Mrs. Johnson: Suzy!
Suzy: I mean, bubble!
(Doofenshmirtz struggles for control of the platform, managing to pull it out of a nose dive, however, the he also pulled off the entire steering mechanism, making the platform completely out of control)
Mrs. Johnson: Get over here Suzy. We're guests here, and guests do not behave like that.
Suzy: But Mom, Candace floats!
Mrs. Johnson: Oh, and now you're telling lies.
Candace: Ugh, Mrs. Johnson, as much as I hate to admit it, Suzy's not lying. Phineas and Ferb made a ray that makes me weightless. I might as well show you I couldn't embarrass myself more than I already have.
(In the backyard Phineas and Ferb finish installing the reverse button)
Phineas: Reverse switch, check. Is it aimed at Candace? Close enough. (He fires the ray)
Candace: Look. (She removes her hands from the table, but gets hit with the ray, making her crash down) Ta da...!
Jeremy: So dad, what do you think?
John: She's a lot like your mom.
(The Tell-the-Truth-inator platform continues to fly around with no control, picking up the floating trampolines left by Phineas and Ferb)
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you Honest Abe Lincoln!
Phineas: Looks like it worked Ferb, Candace is just standing there, talking and pointing. Oh, now looks like they're coming out here. hey! Let's show them our anti-gravity maximus!
(That's the cue for Doofenshmirtz's out of control platform to swoop down and stab up the anti-gravity Maximus, taking it away. Candace drags her mom to the backyard at just the right moment to not see anything)
Candace: It's right out here Mom...It was right here!
Linda: What am I looking at, Candace?
Candace: It was a machine that made me weightless, it, it... Suzy tell them.
Suzy: (pause) Bubble!
Candace: Ugh, you heard her, bubble.

End Credits
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ People say that it's all right ♪
♪ They're only trying to be polite ♪
♪ But even though they're little and white ♪
♪ They're lies ♪
♪ Yes, everyone says it's alright ♪
♪ And I don't want to start a fight ♪
♪ But you know the ties that bind us tight are ♪
♪ Lies! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Not too shabby.



(Scene opens up at a store called "Stor". Baljeet is at the check-out counter with underpants)
Baljeet: Another week's allowance replacing wedgied underwear. If I had anything left, I would invest in the company.
Buford: (runs into the store and gives Baljeet a wedgie) Wedgie time! Thanks for savin' my place in line, nerd!
Baljeet: (annoyed) Buford, how did you find me?
Buford: Let's just say the initials are G, P, and S.
Grocer: Next!
Buford: (handing up his items) A pack of Tuff Gum, and this cheese grater.
Baljeet: What is the cheese grater for?
Buford: You'll see.
Grocer: $4.86. Paper or plastic?
Buford: Plastic. Pay the man, propeller-head.
Baljeet: (growls) That is it! I can put up with noogies, wedgies, wet willies, and even the fact that you apparently have placed a tracking device on, or inside, my person, but I will not tolerate your ignorant decision to take plastic over paper! From this moment on, I am no longer your nerd!! (storms out)
Buford: Aaah, fine! I was feeling creatively stifled by you anyway! (at grocer) And you! You just cost me a perfectly good nerd! Maybe I'll make you my new nerd.
Grocer: 'Wow. Your pressure tactics are quite developed for a youngster.
Buford: Yes. Yes, they are. But some people...don't APPRECIATE THAT!
Grocer: Y-you may be the most intimidating person I-I've ever met.
Buford: You better believe it!
Doofenshmirtz: (pops up from behind a nearby stand)
Grocer: You could probably bully the entire Tri-State Area!
Doofenshmirtz: (excitedly) I'm getting tingly!
(Switches to the Flynn-Fletcher house as Baljeet skips jubilantly into the backyard, singing)
Baljeet: ♪ Oh, free! I am so free ♪
♪ Free to be me ♪
♪ It is me, that is free ♪
Phineas: Hey, Baljeet. You're just in time for what we want to do today. Where's Buford?
Baljeet: Who cares? I am finally free to live my own life! I feel like I can do anything! Like...climb a mountain!
Phineas: Great! Let's put that energy to work building our next--
Baljeet: No, I mean literally climb an actual mountain! Danville Mountain!
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today. Hey, where's Perry?
(Switches to Perry's lair entrance. Perry sips from a garden hose as the hose forms a puddle deep enough to drop him into his lair)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P. We've just recived some intel that Doof has hired an assistant. Some muscle, if you will. He must be up to something big. You know, I once put in a request for some muscle. Got Carl.
Carl: And how many attacks since I came on board?
Major Monogram: Well, none, but, would it kill you to at least look the part? You look like a preschool crossing guard.
Carl: No need to be hurtful, sir.
Major Monogram: Good luck, Agent P.

(Switches to a dry cleaners store)
Buford: I can see I'll be helping you take over the Tri-State Area; would afford me many new bullying opportunities. But what's with the back-story, dude? I mean, who needs a special reason to boss people around?
Doofenshmirtz: I never thought of it like that. We'll get started as soon as I pick up some fresh lab coats. These have got scorch marks all over them.
Buford: (starts pushing people out of line) Out of my way, melonheads! Move it, or never use it!
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, this kid's always on the clock!
(Perry steps in, but quickly hides upon seeing Buford)
Buford: Give Dr. Toothenhurtz here his lab coats, Bright Eyes!
Cashier: I'm sorry, we have a line here. You might want to use it.
Buford: And you might wanna rethink that! I mean, it would be a shame if this double-dutch chocolate mocha espresso you've been drinking, were to, say, I don't know, splishy-splash all over those prissy-clean lab coats you've got back there.
Customer in line: Hold me!
Cashier: You wouldn't dare!
Buford: Try me.
(the two stare at each other; the latter being angry, while the former being frightened)
Doofenshmirtz: (gasps)
Cashier: Fine! Take your dry-cleaning and go!
Doofenshmirtz: (as they walk off down the street while Perry watches nervously) Who would've thought that after all these years, all I needed to take over the Tri-State Area was a grammar-school goon. A ham-handed half-pint. A knee-high ne'er-do-well. A pint-size palooka. A pushy prepubescent.
Buford: Are you done?
Doofenshmirtz Nah, I've got one more. (beat)  A pipsqueak pugilist. Okay, now I'm done.
(At the foot of Danville mountain)
Baljeet: There it is. Danville Mountain. My quest lies ahead of me like an unpeeled potato.
Phineas: We can help you skin that adventure spud! May we present, the MegaPants! (Ferb pulls out a blueprint) Y'see, these hydraulic pistons will walk-
Baljeet: No! I need to do this myself. And that means no inventions.
(The blueprints slips from Ferb's hands)
Phineas: (pause) What?
Baljeet: No gadgets, no gimmicks, just pure achievement! It will be great! Let us go! (begins running up the mountain)
Isabella: No inventions. Are you guys gonna be okay?
Phineas: (as she also runs up the mountain) Sure! Why wouldn't we be?

(A montage plays in which Buford intimidates anyone standing in Doofenshmirtz's path, including a man about to park in the only available parking space, a man hosing the sidewalk in front of them, and a bird casting its shadow on Doof as he sunbathes)

(As the gang approaches a rope bridge)
Phineas: I don't know. That rope bridge looks a little rickety. A couple of hydrochloric unicycles would-
Baljeet: Not necessary! (He runs onto the bridge) Fear is for yesterday. Today we live!
Isabella: New Baljeet rocks!
(The rope bridge snaps and Baljeet falls out of sight, screaming)
Isabella: ...Rocked.
(Baljeet uses the broken rope as a vine and swings up to the opposite bank)
Phineas: He made it! Well, with the bridge gone, we could probably use some spring-loaded boots! (rubs hands in anticipation) Or a drilling machine! Or...or-
Baljeet: I'll save you! (swings across the river, catches them all, and they all swing back to the other bank) Who is ready for some free climbing?
Isabella: Me!
(Ferb puts his hand on Phineas' shoulder and they begin walking again)

(Doofenshmirtz and Buford walk into Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc., where a model of the Tri-State Area is on a table in the middle of the room)
Buford: Dude, what's with the playset?
Doofenshmirtz: Playset? No, this is a non-scale model of the Tri-State Area.
Buford: So you play with dolls?
Doofenshmirtz: (as Perry jet-packs onto the balcony and hides in the rafters) Maaaybe.....but it also helps me visualize my scheme, it doesn't have to be used with dolls.....all the time. A-anyway, this is our headquarters, larger for the sake of clarity, and this, see this right here? This is my Sculptinator. This part will scan my body, and this part will shoot a beam which will then carve Danville Mountain into a lifelike statue of me! (lifts up the model of the mountain to reveal a model of a statue of him, but the statue has a lot of muscles) Visible for literally miles in every direction! Not scale miles, real miles. And then, when people see this splendid tower of manliness, they will just assume that I should be their leader. Look! Look how it captures the manly thickness of my neck.
Buford: (skeptically) That's you?
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah.
Buford: I think the cut of your lab coat is working against you.
Doofenshmirtz: I know, right? I've got to talk to my tailor about that.
Buford: Look, there's Baljeet's house! I'm gonna spit on it.
Doofenshmirtz: (as Buford drops a gob of spit on the plastic model of Baljeet's house) Y'know, I'm kind of surprised that we haven't had a visit from my nemesis yet. (Switch to show Perry hiding in the rafters, looking deeply uncomfortable) I'm sure he'll be along. I can't wait to see the look on his face when he gets a load of you.

(On Danville Mountain. Baljeet is at the head of the group, wearing a harness to which Isabella's, Ferb's and Phineas' harnesses are attached as they climb below)
Phineas: Hey, Baljeet! You sure you don't need any robotic suction spikes up there?
Baljeet: Nope!
Phineas: Or how about mechanical lobster claws?
Baljeet: No-ope!
(Camera pans down to show that Phineas is curled up in a ball, dangling from Ferb's harness as he desperately offers invention ideas)
Phineas: Or maybe gas-propelled pine cone grappling hooks? Or cybernetically controlled towing spiders?
Baljeet: I am good!

(At Doofenshimrtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Surprise! Matching outfits! It's John Phillips of London Bullywear. Plus, monogrammed jet-packs! Doof and Byoof! We rhyme.
Buford: Gee, thanks a lot! Wait till my friends get a load of me!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, you're not gonna need friends. You're gonna be on top of the heap! It's lonely at the top, but, you know, it's the top, so it dulls the ache. (He walks away. Buford looks surprised)

(On Danville Mountain. Baljeet climbs onto the top)
Baljeet: YES! I have BEAT you, Danville Mountain! In your cliff face! Ha ha! I cannot wait to tell Buf- oh. That is right.
(The other kids emerge onto the top)
Isabella: Okay. That's enough triumph for one day. Are we done here, Baljeet?
Baljeet: Yes...
Isabella: Phineas, go!
Phineas: ICE CHALET!!!!! (He instantly zooms offscreen and the sounds of drilling and hammering are heard)
Ferb: If we hadn't been able to invent something soon, I was going to scream. (He and Isabella walk over to join Phineas, leaving Baljeet alone)
(Song: "Big Honkin' Hole in My Heart")
Baljeet: ♪ Somewhere out across that skyline ♪
♪ Maybe down some lonely street ♪
♪ There is a boy with anger issues ♪
♪ Without whom I am incomplete ♪
♪ Who, will give me wedgies now? ♪
♪ Now that we are so far apart? ♪
♪ I, have got to get him back somehow ♪
♪ There is a bully sized hole ♪
♪ A bully sized hole ♪
♪ A bully sized hole in my heart ♪
Buford: ♪ Who, will I give noogies to? ♪
♪ And tease, for being so smart? ♪
♪ I, just don't know what to do ♪
♪ There's a nerd shaped hole in my heart ♪
♪ There's a nerd shaped hole ♪
Baljeet: ♪ A bully sized hole ♪
Both: ♪ A big honking hole in my heart ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Wait a second, you're singing? I know what that means, you're leaving, aren't you?!
Buford: Sorry, Dr. Dooftinasian. But there comes a time when you don't wanna bully everyone. (He looks back dramatically, a single tear falling from his eye) You just wanna bully someone you love.
(He flies away on his jet-pack)
Doofenshmirtz: Nice kid. Well, back to the inator-
(Perry swings down from the rafters and punches him, knocking him over)

(On the mountain. Phineas is still doing things frantically)
Phineas: Okay! We gotta melt out the inside!
Isabella: You know, you really ought to pace yourself!
Phineas: Mudroom first! Ferb, start carving the bearskin rug!
Isabella: You're gonna get the bends or something.

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha! (slams down the Sculptinator start button, then poses) You're too late, Perry the Platypus! Ooh! Make sure to get my good side!
(Perry punches him in the face just as the Sculptinator shoots, making Doofenshmirtz's carving to be of his upturned face with a grotesque expression. The ice chalet is resting on the very tip of his carving's nose, although they don't know this)
Doofenshmirtz: No, Perry the Platypus, aww, you've ruined it! Where am I gonna get another mountain now? (Perry kicks him again and he goes over)

(Inside the ice chalet)
Isabella: Great job on the snow chalet, guys! It's amazing how the cocoa stays hot in these (???) ice cups. How are you feeling, Phineas?
Phineas: (in an ice hot tub) Coming down now, coming down.
Baljeet: I myself am so down, I am in the basement. (The GPS button on his overalls starts blinking and Buford enters) Buford!
(Baljeet jumps up from the table and runs over to greet Buford)
Buford: As much as I'd like a tearful reunion, we gotta get off this mountain pronto!
Baljeet: Why?
(The neck of Doofenshmirtz's carving begins to crumble and the whole top of the mountain carving begins to tremble)
Buford: Let's just say if you want a neck like mine, you gotta start lifting young.
Baljeet: Before any of us move, I have got one last thing to do.
(It looks like he's going in for a hug, but he actually gives Buford a massive wedgie. Buford screams)
Baljeet: There, I feel much better. Do not you?
Buford: Wow. I had no idea that was so uncomfortable. I am so sorry.
(The ice chalet starts shaking harder)
Isabella: It's been great sharing this bonding moment with you two, but we need to get off this crumbling mountain now!
Phineas: Grab hold of something!
(The ice chalet bursts and everybody ends up grabbing onto Buford's now-parachute like underwear)
Buford: Do you ever get used to this?
Baljeet: Nope!
Isabella: I am totally gonna wash my hands after this. Twice.
(Back in D.E.I., Perry uses the scale model of the mountain and activates the Sculptinator to return it to normal)
Doofenshmirtz: (sounding bored) Who could've guessed it? It's back to normal. And explosion now. (Kaboom!) Yep. Just like that. Curse you, Perry the Platypus. Whatever.
♪ Perry! ♪

(The gang lands in the boys' backyard)
Baljeet: I am sorry for my outburst, earlier.
Buford: No. I'm sorry for putting the GPS on you. Consider it gone!
(He rips the GPS button off Baljeet's overalls and they fall down around his ankles)
Baljeet: Oh, yes. This is much less humiliating.
Buford: Don't worry. I'll get the duct tape. (He leaves)
Baljeet: He meant...for my pants, right?

End credits
(Song: "Big Honkin' Hole in My Heart")
Buford: ♪ I, just don't know what to do ♪
♪ There's a nerd shaped hole in my heart ♪
♪ There's a nerd shaped hole ♪
Baljeet: ♪ A bully sized hole ♪
Both: ♪ A big honking hole in my heart ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Wait a second, You're singing? I know what that means! You're leaving, aren't you?



(Scene begins at the Flynn Fletcher household. Phineas is then heard)

Phineas: It's coming!
(Cuts to the hallway. Ferb, Phineas, Isabella and Baljeet run pass, screaming)
Isabella: AAAAHHHHH!!! We're doomed!
Baljeet: The prophecy has come true!
(He then trips on a lamp cord)
Phineas: We are about to pay for our over-consumption!
(Buford appears dressed as a robot)
Buford: You created me, Garbage-zilla! And now, puny humans, Prepare to be trashed! (trips and makes a loud noise) Whoa, whoa!
Candace: Knock it off!
Linda: Candace, I don't know what you kids are doing, but I'm taking an online knitting test in a few minutes, and I need it to be quiet around here. (sarcastic tone) You might not remember quiet. I'm not sure you two ever met. Anyway I'm putting you on noise patrol. You're in charge.
Candace: I'm in charge? Woo-hoo! Yeah!
Linda: Use a muffler. (leaves)
Candace: (She grabs and puts a cushion over her face.) Oh, yeah. Woo-ho!
Buford: This time I want an air siren, and tap shoes.
Candace: Phineas, Ferb, Mom put me on noise patrol while she's taking an online test. She needs it to be... (loudly) ABSOLUTELY QUIET!
Linda: (from upstairs) Candace, I'm trying to concentrate! (going back to her computer) Now let's see: "What's the first ingredient in knitting a garment?" Oh, I know that, it's love. (types it down, only to get the wrong answer) What do you mean, "wool"?
Candace: You heard her, right? No noise. I want you silent, and invisible. Got it? (leaves)
Buford: Silent and invisible!? What am I? A ninja?
Phineas: That's it! Gang, I know what we're gonna do today! (pause) Speaking of silent and invisible, where's Perry?

(Scene changes to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Agent P, we have a crisis. The Agency was going through Dr. Doofenshmirtz's trash this week when we found this. (shows a magazine with doodled on cover) Defaced magazine cover. Shameful! There were hundreds of similary defaced photos of good looking men, (shows a magizine of him on the cover with a devil face drawn onto it) including this handsom devil gracing the cover of Covert Lifestyles. My interest in this incident is purely professional, but put a stop to it!
♪ Dooby dooby do-wa ♪ (x2)
♪ Perry! ♪
Major Monogram: (sobbing) Wh-hy? WH-H-H-HY?
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry flies into the lair but gets caught in a mechanical apple)
Doofenshmirtz: Hold on, Perry the Platypus, I'm just getting the mail. Oh, goody! It's my order from the Power Tool and Sleleton Key Warehouse. I was wondering when this was gonna -- OH! Look! At! This! Every week, the mailman makes the same mistake and I end up getting my neighbor's HS Weekly. Here, hold this, Perry the Platypus, I need to rant. (puts mail in front of Perry) I hate all these good-looking models on the cover of Handsome and Symmetrical Magazine, mocking me with their manly perfection. Their perfect hair, their perfect skin, I hate it! And this, is why I created...the De-Handsome-inator! Soon, all these good looking faces will be hideous! (Perry, free, punches him) Ow! Wait, did you use the skeleton key or was it the power tools?
(Perry starts taking wires out of the De-Handsome-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Just for that, I'm not gonna tell you why the apple --
(Doof unwittingly slams the De-Handsome-nator's switch, setting it to "Not". The inator zaps him, making his face look like a handsome hunk)
Doofenshmirtz: Ugh, you know, I don't have the energy for this. It's still early, do you wanna go grab some lunch? Come on. I skipped breakfast this morning. (he and Perry walk out) You like eggs?
(Back to the backyard, the kids are wearing ninja outfits)
Phineas: Okay, gang, Ferb and I made these ninja outfits using smart garment technology. Once they're switched on, the outfits are designed to hide the wearer from anyone who's not wearing the suit.
(Candace walks out)
Candace: Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! I smell noise! Is that what the black pajamas are for? You gonna have a noise party?
Phineas: Actually, it's the opposite. We're ninjas. Ninjas are renowned for their quiet and concealment. We made an outfit for you, too. (points to a ninja outfit for Candace)
Buford: You should put it on. Take it from me. Black is slimming.
Candace: No, thanks.
Phineas: That's okay. We'll leave it here for you in case you change your mind. (at his friends) All right, ninjas! Let's turn on our outfits!
(Everyone presses a switch on their suits, they are suddenly behind Candace)
Candace: Hey! Where'd everyone go? (turns around several times, but the kids keep sneaking automatically out of her sight) That's so weird. Huh. Oh, I'll find them. (goes inside)
Buford: That was cool! I didn't have to do anything! The outfit did all the work! Whoa Phineas, which way are you facing?
Phineas: Good question.
(Phineas turns his eyes to the other side of his head)
Phineas: Left.
(Inside...)
Candace: Stupid, stealthy ninjas! (slams door)
(In Linda's room)
Linda: Candace, keep it down! (at her test) "What do you call a clever knitter?" (pause) I know! A knit wit! Heh! Is there anything better than knitting humor?
(Doofenshmirtz is walking down the street)
Doofenshmirtz: I need to stop at the bank, I-I don't have any cash.
(people start to notice him)
Woman 1: Ah... (faints)
Man 1: (opens bank door for Doofenshmirtz) It's an honor, sir! A real honor! I can't wait to tell my wife!
Woman 2: Ooh, are you famous? You look like a model, are you an actor? You go first, I can wait!
Man 2: Please, I'm just getting some cash to pay medicine for my kids.
Doofenshmirtz: (at the bank teller) Yes, uh, hello. I just need to make a withdrawal from my account, please.
Bank teller: (gives him money bags) Here, take this. It's on us.
Doofenshmirtz: No, no. J-just enough for lunch.
(At the Bistro restaurant)
Waitress: Sparkling sider?
Water: Scrambled eggs? That's real lobster in there.
Photographer: Preserve the moment! (takes his picture)
Doofenshmirtz: Can you believe the service in this place, Perry the Platypus?
Photographer: Here you go! All framed. (gives him the picture takes
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, ah, thank you! Eh -- (sees his picture) Heh heh, see, this isn't me. This is just the superhumanly attractive male model that came with the frame. I mean, look at this guy, right? That's funny, he's wearing a lab coat just like me -- (Perry holds up a mirror) Uhhhh?! Oh, this is horrible! I can't be handsome! It's -- it's everything I despise! Don't you understand? Beautiful people, they -- they just get everything they want in the world. I mean, watch this. Hey, lady, nice baby.
Woman 3: You want him? He likes you better.
Doofenshmirtz: No, I don't want your baby. (at Perry) You see, Perry the Platypus, the unfair advantage good-looking people have? (becomes conceited) Heeeey?! (at a man) If I ran for Mayor, would you vote for me?
Man 3: Over and over again.
Man 4: No, elections are for ugly people. I'm sure they'd just give him the mayorship.
Doofenshmirtz: Ya think?
Policeman: Sure, you've already got a sizeable mob, and I bet we could pick up a couple thousand more on the way.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, okay, then! On to City Hall!
(the townsfolk cheer, Perry worries, then walks off)
(Back to the Flynn Fletcher household. Candace sits down with a bag of chips and begins to turn on the TV when the kids pop out)
Candace: My busting sense is tingling...
(the kids disappear)
Candace: There's something Phineas and Ferb going on here...
(the kids are posing in the hallway)
Candace: Phineas?
(the kids hide)
Candace: Ferb? (opens the door to Phineas and Ferb's room) You in here? (closes door)
(the kids hide)
Candace: Phineas? Ferb! (opens another door)
(the kids appear, but the door closes and they hide)
Candace: Phineas! Phineas!
(the kids peek again)
Candace: I know you're here!
Linda: (opens the door to her room) And the whole Tri-State Area knows you're here, Candace! Again. could you please keep it down? (closes door)
Phineas: (quietly, behind Candace) I tried to tell you before.
Candace: (turns around) Aha! (sees no one, constantly turns around) Uh...uh...
Phineas: You'll never be able to see us, unless you wear a ninja outfit yourself.
Candace: Oh, I'll wear a ninja outfit, all right! Then, I'll bust the whole lot of you. (walks off, Phineas is on her back)
(Doofenshmirtz is walking down the streets, looking smart and handsome himself)
(Song: I'm Handsome)
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ My jaw is rugged ♪
♪ My hair is wavy ♪
♪ My eyes they twinkle and shine ♪
♪ I used to be mashed potatoes ♪
♪ Now I'm the gravy ♪
♪ Nobody else is quite this fine ♪
♪ I'm the face ♪
♪ I'm a real ace ♪
♪ Nobody's visual appeal is stronger ♪
♪ I'm the very definition of masculine grace ♪
♪ Take a picture, it'll last you longer ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm handsome!♪
♪ I'm so good lookin' ♪
♪ I'm easy on the eyes ♪
♪ Don't you know that I'm handsome? (handsome) ♪
♪ I got chiseled features ♪
♪ Try not to look surprised ♪
♪ When you see that I'm handsome! ♪
♪ I'm a real Adonis ♪
♪ I'm the best you ever saw ♪
♪ I'm handsome ♪
♪ I'm a tall drink of water ♪
♪ Somebody better grab a straw ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm handsome! (handsome)♪
Man 5: My company wants to give you a life time supply of our distinctive hand mirrors.
Doofenshmirtz: Send them over. (he's handsome)
♪ Don't you know that I'm handsome? (handsome) ♪
Woman 4: I'm gonna name all my children after you even though they're already in college.
Doofenshmirtz: Nice! (he's handsome)
♪ Can't you see that I'm handsome? (handsome/he's handsome) ♪
Get in line ladies! (he's handsome)
♪ 'Cause I'm handsome! (handsome/he's handsome) ♪
I'm a total catch, really (he's handsome)
I'm quite fetching (fetching/handsome)
It's a word, it is! (he's handsome)
♪ It means that I'm handsome! ♪
(At City Hall...)
Roger: Well, well, well Heinz. At the age of 47, you've finally grown into your looks!
Doofenshmirtz: Yes. Yes, I have.
Roger: In fact, it would be our pleasure to suspend democracy and make you our Supreme Leader.
(crowd cheers)
Roger: Do you have any questions, yo-o-o-ou handsome devil?
Doofenshmirtz: Hmm, how is my hair?
(crowd laughs)
Woman 5: He's handsome and funny!
(Perry goes to D.E.I. and pushes the De-Handsome-inator to the balcony, setting it to "Ugly". He tries to aim it, but a hot air balloon in the shape of Doofenshmirtz's head blocks the way. Several other hot air balloons float up, in one of them is a couple)
Woman 6: This'll be the perfect place to watch the coranation!
Man 6: I can't believe how fast they mass produced these commemorative hot air balloons.
(Perry is worried, the doorbell rings)
Delivery man: Hand mirror delivery!
(Back to the backyard, Candace is putting on her ninja outfit)
Candace: (singsong) Phineas? Come out, come out, wherever you are!
(Candace puts her ninja mask on, the kids come out of hiding)
Candace: Okay, you guys are so busted, and I hace the evidence right here on my body. (runs off) Woo hoo! Mom! Mom!
Buford: I knew she'd come back for the slimming.
(in Linda's room)
Candace: Okay, I know you're super busy and all, but you have just got to see what Phineas and Ferb made. I'm wearing it.
Linda: Candace, this test is time sensitive!
Candace: Just one second!
Linda: Oh, all right. (turns around, Candace is gone) What? Where'd you go?
Candace: I'm right here, on the ceiling.
Linda: (looks up, Candace disappears) What?
Candace: I'm right here, under the rug!
Linda: (looks down, Candace disappears again) Young lady...
Candace: Heh, now, I'm on the shelf.
Linda: I don't know how you're throwing your voice and I understand that you want attention, but I'm really, really busy.
Candace: It's the outfit! (takes mask off) It won't let you see me.
Linda: But, it apparently has no qualms about letting me hear you.
Candace: (takes entire suit off) Mom, here it is! Mom! (closes eyes)
Linda: All right, Candace... (turns around, the suit bounces out of Candace's arms) What am I looking at?
Candace: (gasps)
Buford: These outfits were fun!
Isabella: I've never moved so fast!
Baljeet: Oh! That was quite a workout.
(Candace's suit peeks out from behind the tree)
Phineas: Hey! It's Candace's ninja outfit! It's hiding! She must've left it switched on. (turns off the suit)
(Roger is ready to crown Doofenshmirtz)
Roger: And now, I finally pronounce you...
(Perry chatters)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Perry the Platypus, I'm so glad you're here to see this.
(Perry holds up a remote)
Doofenshmirtz: What's that? My inator remote? You're wasting your time. There's no way you'll get a clear line of fire from my place to here, what with all hose commemorative hot air balloons in the way. How do they mass produce those so fast? 
(Perry presses the remote, the De-Handsome-inator fires the hand mirror attached to the back of one of the balloons, another off a mailbox, a third off a building, off a pack of cars, off another mirror carried by a pigeon, and through the crowd until it finally hits Doofenshmirtz, reverting him to his old, ugly self)
Roger: Ew.
(everyone groans)
Man 7: He suddenly looks so...unqualified.
Policeman: Please disperse, nothing handsome to see here.
Woman 7: Hey, let's go look at fashion magazines!
Woman 8: Yeah, that sounds great.
(everyone leaves)
(Back in the backyard, the kids have taken their suits off and they're folded)
Phineas: ...And they fold down to almost nothing.
Candace: (from her window) Phineas, do not go anywhere. (walks into Linda's room) The ninja outfits, they're still there! Hurry! Wait till you see this. (drags Linda on her chair with her outside)
Phineas: ...By pressing the "on "button, the outfits put themselves away.
(all the kids press the "on" button on their suits, the suits put themselves away by flipping away from outer sight, just as Candace pushes Linda out)
Candace: There! Bust them! (closes eyes)
Linda: Oh, hi kids. I wanna thank you for being so quiet all afternoon. (at Candace) Unlike...someone I know!
Candace: But...but but...
Phineas: Hey Mom, how your test go?
Linda: (flatly) Well, lucky for Candace, I just passed. (enthuastic) Anyone for pie?
All but Ferb: (jump for joy) Me!
Linda: (in a stern tone) Mush, Candace.
(Candace pushes Linda away, sighing)
(Back at Town Hall...)
Roger: So sorry. It looks like your small window of fleeting beauty is now gone. (leaves)
Doofenshmirtz: I don't understand! How -- how is is possible? Uh -- you did this, Perry the Platypus!
(He fires a ray but Perry blocks it with another hand mirror, causing the ray to go in the reverse order of the firing tree right back to the De-Handsome-inator, causing its switch to slide to "Not" as it explodes, releasing one final ray)
(In the backyard...)
Phineas: Coming, bro?
(the final ray is seen flashing by them)
Ferb: D'you ever notice in a certain light Buford looks...handsome?
(Both turn to Buford, who has a handsome face like Doofenshmirtz's from before)
Buford: It's a blessing, and a curse.



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house. Candace is heard meditating in her room.)
Candace: Oh strange phenomenon, tell me why you keep making my brothers' inventions disappear! Give me a sign! (Looks to her left with her left eye and vice versa. She smacks the floor, and a book wobbles off the shelf) Ugh! Why do you toy with me? (Picks up the book) My 4th grade science book? (Opens the book) "The scientific method has proven to be mankind's most useful tool for understanding the truth behind formerly strange phenomenon". Hee-hee-hee-hee...
(Downstairs in the kitchen, Linda puts down some groceries)
Linda: You boys ready for pie tonight?
Phineas: Doonkelberry Pie! Our favorite!
Linda: (Arranging the groceries into a shelf) No, not Doonkelberry Pie. Everybody's out of Doonkelberries! I can't find them anywhere lately.
Phineas: Really? (Starts typing on his laptop) Let me check.
Linda: I'll be berry interested to see what you find.
Phineas: Good one, Mom. (At Ferb) We should cast our net a little wider than Danville. (The laptop beeps) Bingo! (Looks closer to the screen) It looks like there are some in... Drusselstein!
Ferb: Drusselstein is a rustic Eastern European country, whose primary export is Doonkelberries.
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! Hey, where's Perry?
(At the front door, a package from OWCA falls through the pet door. Perry notices an envelope on the package, and opens it, revealing a letter)
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P, and welcome to the field test of our new talking letter. As you can see, it looks like a normal letter, except for this strange gibberish text that no one can read, and the obvious fact that it's got a little talking photo of-- Actually, this is a silly idea. I mean, we had to mail this last Tuesday. Plus, it's really just dumb-lucked that no one has picked up the mail first. Well, whatever. Open the box, Agent P.
(Perry opens the box, revealing German-esque overalls and an OWCA fedora with a feather)
Major Monogram: That's right, rockenhosen! We're sending you to Drusselstein. Doofenshmirtz will arrive there this morning, and we must know what he's up to. Now this letter will self-destruct. (The envelope closes, and the letter self destructs) Oww!! Oh, and the, uh, box, as well. (Perry picks up the scattered shreds of the blown up letter, puts it into the box, closes it and tosses the box out of the pet door) 5, 4, 3... (Perry changes into his clothes and runs off) You know, I really don't know what we were thinking with -- (The second explosion occurs. The roof opens and Perry comes out in his jet-pack)
(At the backyard, Phineas is writing into a blueprint, while Ferb is using a calculator)
Isabella: Hey Phineas! What'cha dooooin'?
Phineas: We're gonna build a trebuchet to shoot ourselves to Europe.
Isabella: Cool! Gravity or tension spring?
Phineas: Well, gravity proba-- Wait, when did you learn trebuchet mechanics?
Isabella: Medieval Siege Engine Patch. It was my first one.
(At the Tri-State Area Public Library)
Candace: (Clears throat) I'm looking for a book on scientific investigation and disappearing objects. Got anything?
Librarian: Let's see... (Starts typing on the computer) Um, Disappearing Objects and Scientific Investigation. Sound good?
Candace: Shuh!
Librarian: Oh, it's checked out to a Heinz Doofenshmirtz.
Vanessa: Yes?
Candace: Vanessa?
Vanessa: "Doofenshmirtz". It's my last name. Heinz is my Dad.
Candace: Doofenshmirtz? What's that, like, Chinese?
Vanessa: It's Drusselsteinian.
Candace: Right, from Drusselsteinia!
Vanessa: I'm heading over my Dad's house if you want to look for your book.
Candace: Cool.
♪ Drusselstein Department of Motor Vehicles and Goat Registration! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: And this is it, right here. (Gets off) Thanks for the ride! Keep the change!
Driver: Vhat change? You've been hitchhiking!
Doofenshmirtz: It's an expression! Hmm! (At Perry) Perry the Platypus? Wow, Rumpkinhossen'. Five seconds and you've already gone native. Well, don't worry, I'm not doing anything evil today, I'm just here to renew my driver's license. (Shows his license) Say, as long as you're here, why don't you stay and keep me company? (pause) Pleeease? It's so boring. (Perry facepalms)
(Back at the backyard, Phineas, Ferb and Isabella are in the trebuchet)
Isabella: You know, traditionally, these things don't have much range.
Phineas: Yeah, it's a bit of a cheat to use a warp generator to bend the fabric of space, but I'm sure they would've done it in olden times if the technology were available.
Isabella: If the trebuchet can't go to Drusselstein, bring Drusselstein to the trebuchet!
Phineas: Baljeet?
Baljeet: Bending!
(Baljeet activates a remote. Impossibly, Drusselstein stretches over Danville. Phineas lets go of the trebuche's rope and the trio slingshot over to Drusselstein and land in a tree. Drusselstein then unstretches back to it's normal location. The three then hop out of the tree)
Phineas: Hmm! Rustic! (notices Zengle's Fruit Stand) Here it is! This may be the only place in the world to get doonkelberries right now.
Zengle: That's because I have my own doonkelberry field. So when I need more, I pick more.
Phineas: But what about exports?
Zengle: Well...the canning facilities shut down after the shaft stopped working.
Phineas: The shaft?
Zengle: All of Drusselstein runs off of central shaft. Or at least...it used to. Drusselstein's a long narrow land, the only country in the world where a central shaft makes any sense, except for maybe Chile. At the end of the shaft was an exercise wheel powered by thousands of rabbits. The rabbits turned the wheel, the wheel turned the shaft, and the shaft turned everything else. A miracle of 16th Century science, today! It powered our vashing machines, our blenders, our schwingel presses, and of course, it ran all of the country's doonkelberry processing plants. The rabbits wouldn't keep up, so we decided to upgrade from rabbits to a more powerful source of energy: goats. So we set up a differential on each side of the shaft, that the goats might valk upon the ground. But, the Leftsiders sent their goats walking clockwise, and the Rightsiders sent their goats walking counterclockwise. So the shaft couldn't turn.
Phineas: But the solution is so obvious!
Isabella: Just have one side turn their goats around.
Zengle: Yes, but we are a proud people. In our culture, turning your goats around is the mark of a coward! Neither side will back down. So it is, such as it has ever been, in Drusselstein, Land...of...the Shaft! I am done, now.
(A crowd of people start arguing in the distance)
Zengle: Uh-oh. Time for the 5 o'clock demonstrations.
(The Drusselstenians come by arguing)
Man 1: Counterclockwise forever!
Man 2: Turn around!
Man 3: We cannot be swayed!
Man 4: You're turning the wrong way!
Man 5: Rightsiders go home!
Man 6: Filthy clockwisers!
Woman 1: Yo mama!
Phineas: Isabella, how would you like a Conflict Resolution patch?
(Scene switches to the DMV)
Receptionist: Fill out this form and take it to line 26. (goat bleats) NEXT! Yes?
Doofenshmirtz: I want to renew my driver's license, please.
Receptionist: (inspects the license) Hmm...
Doofenshmirts: "Hmm"? What do you mean "Hmm"?
Receptionist: I'm afraid you will have to be... (inhale) RE-CERTIFIED!
Doofenshmirtz: Re-certified? No, but that means...
Receptionist: YES!
Doofenshmirtz: No!
Receptionist: You vill have to take...
Doofenshmirtz: Don't say it!
Receptionist: THE DRIVING TEST!
Doofenshmirtz: B-but t-there must be some mistake! I --
Receptionist: Your instructor will meet you out BACK! NEXT!
Doofenshmirtz: Hold my hand, Perry the Platypus! (sniff) I'm scared!
Vanessa: ♪ Lookin' for books at my dad's place! ♪
Candace: Why are you singing that?
Vanessa: It's just something we do.
Candace: Hey, swanky! It's all like, science-y in here.
Vanessa: Yeah, my dad's kind of an amateur inventor. I think I saw some books over here. (sees books cluttered with lasers on a table) Oh, here we go. Uh, we can just put his other stuff anywhere. What's the name of the book again?
Candace: Uh, "Disappearing Objects: a Scientific Investigation". (doesn't see the rays blast objects in the lair, making them disappear)
Vanessa: Disappearing objects? You mean, like socks?
Candace: Like rollercoasters, building to the moon, stampeding cows...stuff like that just disappears.
Vanessa: Does that happen often?
Candace: Oh, you would not believe.
(Back in Drusselstein)
Phineas: So, let's recap. You Leftsiders won't turn your goats around?
Left judge: I believe we have made our position clear.
Phineas: And you Righsiders won't turn your goats around, either.
Right judge: This point is non-negotiable!
Judges/Drusselstenians: There is only one point! There is only one point! We will never turn! (keep arguing)
Phineas: Now, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. I think we can solve this, but we're gonna need a certain tool.
(At D.E.I.)
Candace: Wow, this place is just made for scientific inquiry. (spots telescope) Hey, cool telescope! (looks through it) I bet I can see my house from here. Oh, cool, it's pointed right at it! (sees trebuchet in backyard) What the heck is that? Oh, my gosh. It's another stupid invention. (patting telescope) Thank you, Mr. Scientific Instrument.
(atop a hill...)
Doofenshmirtz: Thanks for coming along, Perry the Platypus. You know, having you around just makes me feel, you know, safer. In this circumstance, Back home is exactly the opposite.
Driving instructor: Heinz Doofenshmirtz, do you attest hat you take this driving test of your own free will?
Doofenshmirtz: Yes.
Driving instructor: You may go!
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, wait, wait, uh, I'm not ready. Let, let me psych myself up. Just a few breathing exercises, then I'll go, okay, right?
Driving instructor: We have a choker!
(A goat hits the car, causing it to roll down the mountain as Doofenshmirtz screams)
(Song: "Drusselstein Driving Test Waltz")
♪ Turn, yield, halt ♪
♪ If you fail you'll know who's at fault ♪
♪ Avoid vehicular assault ♪
♪ As you're doing the Drusselstein Driving Test Waltz ♪
♪ Gas, shift, brake ♪
♪ Drinking coffee's a big mistake ♪
♪ Try not to plunge into the lake ♪
♪ When you're doing the Drusselstein Driving Test Waltz ♪
Female Pedestrian: I'm okay!
♪ Use two hands when you steer her ♪
♪ Then check in the mirror ♪
♪ What you see may be nearer ♪
♪ Don't lay on the horn! ♪
♪ See the traffic cop bossing ♪
♪ Pedestrians crossing ♪
♪ Never drive when you're flossing ♪
♪ You'll wish you weren't born! ♪
♪ Belt yourself ♪
♪ Only way to protect your health ♪
♪ Leave your friends all your hard-earned wealth ♪
♪ If you croak when you're boldly embarking ♪
♪ And parallel parking ♪
♪ And acing the written ♪
♪ Look out for that kitten! ♪
♪ No time for high-fiving ♪
♪ You're barely surviving ♪
♪ The dangerous Drusselstein Driving Test Waltz! ♪
(Perry chatters crazily)
Doofenshmirtz: I think I did okay.
(switch back to Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, after careful consideration, we have come up with a solution that we believe will satisfy everyone.
Male Leftsider 1: We will not be satisfied!
Male Rightsider 1: No compromise!
Male Rightsider 2: No compromise!
Phineas: Ferb?
(Ferb saws the shaft in half, both sides turn differently, making both sides operate)
Man 7: I did not think it was possible!
Woman 2: The shaft is turning in both directions!
Viking: The science is far behyond us!
Man 8: The viking is right! By separating the shaft, you have united our country!
(applause)
Man 9: Your goats may walk in any direction you choose, Father!
Man 9's father: Yours too, my son! (both sob)
Man 10: It's like a fluganoff miracle!
Man 8: You have brought peace to our land. Surely there's something we can do for you?
Phineas: Yes. Yes, there is.
(Phineas, Ferb and Isabella are in a trebuchet ready to go home)
Phineas: Fresh doonkleberries! Thanks!
Isabella: (on phone) Okay, Baljeet!
(Drusselstein impossibly stretches over Danville like what happened before. The trebuchet slingshots everyone back to Danville)
Phineas: I guess it's lucky that they had a trebuchet in Drusselstein, huh?
Man 11: Henceforth we shall call this day; "Phineas and Ferb" Day!
Man 12: You mean "Ferb and Phineas" Day!
(Everyone begins arguing again)
Man 13: By descending order of height! Everybody knows that!
(Cut to D.E.I., Candace is on the phone)
Candace: (singsong) Hello, Mom! I bet you can't guess why I'm calling!
(Cut to Linda at the house)
Linda: I don't know. Did the boys build a giant amusement park for leprechauns?
(Cut back to Candace)
Candace: (singsong) I don't know if that's what it is! But if you simply look in the backyard, you'll see it!!
(Candace's elbow suddenly leans on the "FIRE" button on the telescope's control panel. The telescope fires a ray)
Linda: (singsong) All right, Candace. I'm looking.
(The telescope's ray hits the trebuchet, causing it to disappear just before Linda looks in the backyard. Cut to Candace, on the phone with her eyes closed)
Linda: (from the phone) And surprise, there's nothing there.
Candace: Huh? (looks through the telescope) What do you mean, "Nothing"?! (sees nothing) But...but but...
(She scowls, then leaves the lair)
Candace: (flatly) Thanks, Vanessa.
Vanessa: What about the scientific method?
Candace: It's flawed.
(Back in Drusselstein)
Doofenshmirtz: Thanks for everything, Perry the Platypus. And don't worry, I - I'll pay for the dry cleaning on your Rumpkinhossen. All right, see you back home! I'm taking the trebuchet. (Perry blasts away on a jetpack)
(Back home)
Linda: (offscreen) More pie, anyone?
Phineas: No thanks, Mom. Delicious, but I'm stuffed.
Isabella: Me too!
Linda: (offscreen) I think it's gonna rain. It's really overcast out there.
Phineas: Nah, that's just Drusselstein.
(Reveal that Drusselstein is still stretched over Danville)
Phineas: Baljeet?
Baljeet: Oh, sorry!
(In Drusselstein, the trebuchet slingshots Doofenshmirtz's car into the air)
Doofenshmirtz: I should always travel like this! This is gre --
(Drusselstein unstretches back to its normal location)
Doofenshmirtz: CURSE YOU, CONCEPTUAL ELASTICITY OF SPACE-TIME!
(the car falls into the water)

End Credits
(Song: Drusselstein Driving Test Waltz)
♪ See the traffic cop bossing ♪
♪ Pedestrians crossing ♪
♪ Never drive when you're flossing ♪
♪ You'll wish you weren't born! ♪
♪ Belt yourself ♪
♪ Only way to protect your health ♪
♪ Leave your friends all your hard-earned wealth ♪
♪ If you croak when you're boldly embarking ♪
♪ And parallel parking ♪
♪ And acing the written ♪
♪ Look out for that kitten! ♪
♪ No time for high-fiving ♪
♪ You're barely surviving ♪
♪ The dangerous Drusselstein Driving Test Waltz! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I think I did okay.



Part I
(The scene opens up with an aerial shot of the Earth. Theatrical music plays as text starts to pan across the screen in a style that is similar to the opening of a Star Wars film)
Narrator: A long time ago in a studio in Burbank, California, a ragtag group of animators made a fake trailer for a Meap sequel they never intended to make. Unfortunately, everyone wanted to see that episode so the animators were forced to write it and incorporate all these seemingly unrelated scenes.
(The scene shifts and the aforementioned trailer starts to play)
(Phineas, Ferb, and Meap are seen looking up towards the sky, just before a massive mechanical pillar smashes into their backyard. The scene shifts)
Mitch: (He is seen with blue orbs of fire in each hand) Hahahahaha! Aren't you a little young to save the universe?
Phineas: (The camera zooms in on the Earth from outer space, and Phineas and Ferb are seen equipped with high-tech visors and blasters in front a futuristic steel door) Yes. Yes, I am.
(The scene shifts. Meap puts on his pink helmet. The scene shifts. Ferb is holding on to Candace, who is dangling at the edge of an aircraft. Mitch's ship rams into Meap's ship from the side as they speed towards a metropolitan coastline. The scene shifts. Ferb is seen rappelling down into a metal pit. The scene shifts to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: I want your hat on my desk!
(Perry throws his chair towards a monitor. The scene shifts to what looks like the inside of Meap's ship)
Doofenshmirtz: Balloony! (Balloony is wearing an armored suit with energy axes)
Mitch: Colin!
(The scene shifts. Suzy and Meap are engaged in an epic karate duel at a Bango-Ru convention)
Candace: What? Jeremy's going to be there!
(The scene shifts to a building that looks like the Seattle Space Needle)
Meap: Meap!
(The scene shifts back to the aerial shot of the Earth)
Narrator: I guess the joke was on them. We now present... (dramatically) Meapless in Seattle.

(The text fades and the camera pans upwards, then eastward, and finally horizontally downwards, revealing a mechanical antenna in deep space. The antenna is part of a much larger ship is that is in pursuit of Meap's ship. As the two ships navigate their way through an asteroid belt, the antenna breaks. The ships appear to be heading towards Earth. The scene shifts to the living room of the Flynn-Fletcher household)

Candace: Ready to go?
Stacy: Sure. So you're okay with not, you know, busting your brothers first?
Candace: Yeah, I've been spending all my time worrying about Phineas and Ferb. I used to have other things to worry about. Like... (dramatically) What? Jeremy's going to be there! I just need to broaden my anxieties.
Stacy: Yeah, I guess if you're going to have an unhealthy mind frame, it might as well benefit me. Now, the mall is waiting.
Candace: Yeah, and no more worrying about Phineas and Ferb. I mean, if I did half the things they do, I'd get so... busted.
Stacy: Uh-oh. I just lost you, didn't I?
Candace: Stacy! If I do what Phineas and Ferb are doing I would get busted, and them along with me. A sacrificial bust!
Stacy: I almost got you-
Candace: I can take the hint-
Stacy:  -out the door-
Candace: but they'll never see it coming.
Stacy: -to the mall.
Candace: Muhahahahaha
(The scene shifts to the kitchen, where Linda is listening to a language tutorial)
French Audio Teacher: Où est la.
Linda: Où est la.
Candace: (sarcastically) Mom, if you need me, I'll be outside with Phineas and Ferb. And when you get a break from your French lesson, feel free to pop outside and check out what we're doing, okay?
Linda: Okay Candace honey. Oh, would you take the garbage out, it's over by the door.
Candace: Sure thing, Mom.
(Candace walks out into the yard with a garbage bag)
Candace: Okay Phineas and Ferb, what are we going to do- (She gets squashed in between two giant pillows, dropping the garbage bag) today?
Phineas: Oh, sorry Candace. We're having a giant pillow fight.
Candace: Giant pillow fight? Perfect! Move over and give me a try. (She gets into the pilot's chair of one of the giant pillows)
Phineas: Sure Candace.
Candace: This ought to get mom out here.
Phineas: You know who else would love this?
Candace: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Do that. Say where's Perry?
Phineas: Well I was going to say Buford, but where is Perry?

(The scene shifts to Perry's underground lair)
Major Monogram: Morning Agent P. Dr. Doofenshmirtz is on the move. We've tracked him to northwestern Washington. We need you to get up there and see what he's up to. Oww! Oh! My back! Carl, crack!
Carl: Cracking, sir. (Carl proceeds to crack Monogram's back)
Major Monogram: By the way, (in an angry tone) I want your hat on my desk! Because it rains a lot in Seattle, and I'd like to spray it with this cool new water-proofing treatment. Which reminds me, we've installed new unbreakable glass in your lair monitor. Go ahead, try it out. (Perry yanks out his chair and throws it at the screen. The chair shatters on impact against the monitor) Hmm, better order that unbreakable chair too, Carl.
♪ Perry! ♪

(The scene shifts back to the backyard, where Phineas and Ferb are watching Candace control one of the pillows)
Candace: Oh, look Mom. We are having so much dangerous fun with these massive pillows.
(Meap's ship lands in Phineas and Ferb's backyard, and Meap gets out)
Phineas: It's Meap!
Meap: Meap!
Phineas: What's wrong?
Meap: Meap!
(Mitch's pod walker appears and nearly crushes Phineas, Ferb, and Meap)
Phineas: (He points at the pod walker) Wow! Cool ship. Is that yours?
Meap: Meap!
Phineas: Say what now?
Meap: (Meap puts on translation mustache and clears his throat) RUN!
Isabella: (She appears at the entrance) Hi Phineas-
Phineas: (He grabs Isabella by the waist and runs out of the yard with Ferb and Meap) RUN! (They reach the front yard) Wait! Candace!
Candace: (She is still in the backyard controlling one of the pillow fighting machines, unaware that the pod walker is getting tangled up in its string) Mom?! Come on out and see all the fun we're having! (The pod walker trips and yanks her and the machine to the front yard) AHHHHHH!!!!
Linda: (comes out, though she does not notice Meap's spaceship) Okay Candace, what did you want me to see?
(The scene shifts to the front yard)
Phineas: I'm going back for Candace.
(Candace lands on the giant pillows in front of them)
Candace: What's going on?
Phineas, Ferb, Meap and Isabella: RUN!
(Candace screams as the pod walker fires a laser, and Meap loses his mustache in the process. They run towards the backyard)
Meap: Meap!
Isabella: Oh no Meap! You lost your translation mustache.
(In the backyard, they get into Meap's spaceship while Linda stands in front of them, with her back towards the spaceship)
French Audio Teacher: The spaceship is right behind you. Le vaisseau spatial est juste derrière vous.
Phineas: Hey look, there's Mom!
French Audio Teacher: Your children are climbing in the spaceship now.
Phineas: Hi Mom!
French Audio Teacher: Vos enfants monter maintenant dont vaisseau spatial.
Phineas: We're going to outer space!
French Audio Teacher: Oh for the love of, would you turn around?
Phineas: See ya!
French Audio Teacher: Oh pour l'amour de, vous de serait tournez?
Linda: Well when is that ever going to come up in conversation? (Meap's spaceship takes off)
(The scene shifts to the inside of Meap's ship)
Candace: (She is taking a video of herself with her phone) Hi mom, check me out, I'm flying away in an alien spaceship with Phineas and Ferb! I am so busted!
Meap's ship's computer: Autopilot engaged. (Meap presses a button, and a second translation mustache pops out of the dashboard. The words "Made in Georgia" are in placard at the bottom) Emergency Translation Mustache activated.
Meap: (looks back from the pilot's chair wearing the two piece mustache. He starts speaking in a southern accent) I beg your pardon for all the hustle and bustle kids. It's just that my planet needs your help!
Phineas: We'd do anything for you, Meap.
Meap: In a rather large nutshell, here's my problem: You see, where I come from cuteness is valued above all else... (There is a ripple dissolve into a flashback of Meap's planet) and the source of our planets cuteness is a very rare element called cutonium. And a very long time ago, back in the days of yore, a gentleman by the name of Zachariah Yore discovered a hidden underground vein of pure cutonium. Yore used this highly concentrated cutonium to turn himself into a being so dag-gum cute that no one could refuse him anything he desired. (Citizens of Meap's planet are taking jewelry and gold from what looks like a treasury and handing it over to Yore) But as we all know, absolute cuteness corrupts absolutely. (Yore turns evil) Yore quickly became a greedy, evil tyrant, who after a great war was eventually removed. Afterwards pure cutonium was deemed too dangerous, (The cutonium is extracted from Yore) and the last of it was gathered up in a special container, and blasted off the planet into deep space. However, a week ago, scientists discovered a long, long dormant trail of cuteness, leading away from our planet in the direction of Earth. (Via a telescope's point of view, a stream of purple matter is shown heading towards Earth. The flashback ends) Children, and Candace, I need your help. Someone else wants to lay his hands on the cutonium, and we have to find it first.
Phineas: No problem. Ferb and I can build another cute tracker with these parts. Of course this time we'll have to adjust the settings to ignore Meap's cuteness. (The camera pans right to Isabella frowning) Oh! And yours too Isabella.
Isabella: I don't need your charity. So how bad is this guy we're up against?
Meap: I think you're already acquainted with the scoundrel in question.
(The scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher household, where two of Mitch's androids are seen putting Meap's mustache on Mitch)
Mitch: Ha, those kids will lead me right to it! Just as I planned! (The two robots give blank stares) What? Wh-what's that look? That was my plan. (The robots look at the destroyed pod walker) Yes, e-even destroying the pod walker was part of the plan! You know, I can deactivate the both of you, and two more just like you will take your place. (The androids clap nervously) That's better. Now let's get after those kids, before they get too far ahead of us. (Mitch's spaceship emerges out of the pod walker and he boards it)
♪ He's Mitch, but some people call him Big Mitch ♪
(The scene shifts back to Meap's ship)
Phineas: I don't get it Meap. Did Big Mitch escape from prison?
Meap: Well, we come from a cute based society. By law the harshest judicial sentence we can pass down is a time-out.
Phineas: Nice work Ferb. The cute-tracker 2.0 is up and running.
Candace: So, where are we headed?
Phineas: It says the cutonium is somewhere in... Seattle.
Isabella: How will we know when we get to Seattle?
(Meap's ship passes a "Welcome to Seattle" signpost and enters a rainy, overcast area)
Ferb: We're here.
(The scene transitions to the group wearing raincoats in front of some coffee shops in Seattle)
Phineas: According to this, the cutonium is buried somewhere around these abandoned coffee houses.
Isabella: (Holding her sash) Well, it looks like the Unearthing Ancient Container patch I earned is finally going to come in handy.
Candace: Great. Let's find us some cutonium. The sooner we get started, the sooner we get busted.
(The group begins to dig up the area surrounding the coffee houses using some high tech equipment. They unearth vases, silverware, jewelry and sewage pipes)
Candace: (to her phone) Look Mom. We're digging up the entire northwest United States! You okay with that?

(The scene shifts to the inside of one of the coffee shops, where Dr. Doofenshmirtz is reading the newspaper)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Seattle. My home away from home. And to think, Perry the Platypus has no idea. He's, he's completely clueless about my little excursions up here. Ha, ha. That poor, blind, trusting pla- (Doofenshmirtz puts down his paper and sees Perry outside in the rain, staring at him. He runs to the "Dudes" room, where he sneaks out of the window and grabs an umbrella. However, Perry is outside the window waiting for him) AH! I'm not here! You are not seeing me! (Doofenshmirtz begins to run away, but falls face-first into a ditch) Oh Perry the Platypus, how long have you been... and look at that, it's, it's Peter the Panda, my ex-nemesis, what a coincidence, huh? (Perry turns to Peter, and then looks back at Doofenshmirtz, annoyed) I mean what is he doing here, in Seattle... his... hometown? And look he's got, he's got two coffees, one of which for sure, is not for me... it's not mine... (He moves his hands upwards, and in the process knocks some loose dirt away from the side of the ditch, unearthing the container of cutonium) because mine's right here. Look. See? (He drinks the cutonium) Ugh, ugh, that is not coffee. (As soon as he drinks the cutonium, Doofenshmirtz shrinks and becomes cute. Peter drops the two coffee cups in shock. Doofenshmirtz soon realizes what has happened) That's just great. What kind of a world are we living in, where a guy can't down the contents of a mysterious urn found in a trench, without undergoing major physical transmogrification? Really?
(Perry and Peter get out of the way as Mitch swoops down and picks up the container)
Mitch: At last the cutonium is, oh- no empty!
Doofenshmirtz: Hey! Dude! You're standing on my lab coat!
Mitch: (He picks Doofenshmirtz up) Oh-no, no, no, no! Did you actually drink the cutonium?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, is that what that was? I totally cannot recommend it.
Mitch: Well, you're cute alright, but you should have become completely irresistible. How homely were you before?
Doofenshmirtz: Hey I know you! You're that Mitch guy from space. Put me down you best friend stealer!
Mitch: Well I suppose one container of cutonium is as good as any other. (to Doofenshmirtz, who is visibly annoyed) Want to go for a ride? Won't that be fun? Yes it will. (to his robots while pointing at Peter and Perry) Destroy them.
Doofenshmirtz: Wow! You're strict.
(Peter and Perry fight with two of Mitch's robots)

Phineas: (Looking at the cute-tracker 2.0) The cute signal's emanating from over there. And Big Mitch has it!
Meap: My word! Something must be done, y'all!
Mitch: Soon the whole world will be mine!
Doofenshmirtz: If you don't let me down I'l-
(Doofenshmirtz is taken from Mitch's hands by Phineas and Ferb's digging equipment. He is brought towards the kids in a pipe)
Isabella: (looking at Doofenshmirtz) Oh, he's so cute!
Phineas: Yep, he's definitely the source of the signal.
Isabella: Let's get to the ship.
Candace: (to her phone) Hi mom, check us out!
Mitch: To the ship! (They enter the ship)
Doofenshmirtz: (as he falls from the pipe into Meap's ship) Woohoo! Whee!
Phineas: (No longer wearing his raincoat) Gotcha! (to Meap) Come on, punch it Meap. Let's get out of here!
Mitch: Oh no you don't!
(Meap's ship begins to fly away, with Mitch's ship hot on its tail. They speed out of Seattle back towards Danville)
Phineas: Mitch is gaining!
Mitch: I have you right where I want you.
(The two ships bump against each other, and Candace almost falls out, but is saved by Ferb)
Candace: (to her phone) Hi Mom. Look, I'm in mortal danger! Say hi Ferb. (Ferb waves, and pulls Candace back into Meap's ship. A tractor beam emanating from Mitch's ship stops them from moving any further)
Meap: My word! A tractor beam! Hold on children, this ship is jumpin' like a June-bug on a hot chicken!
(The ship escapes the tractor beam momentarily, but gets caught in it upside-down in the process. The hatch on Meap's ship opens, and Doofenshmirtz and Meap fall out and plummet to the ground)
Meap: Well my little friend, it looks we're about to meet our untimely demise.
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, speak for yourself, I'm going to try to land on you, so you'll break my fall.

Part II
Meap: My word, we've been fallin' for a long time!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, a joke about the commercial break, yeah, that's how I want to spend my last few seconds.
Meap: (He lands on the space needle, and loses his moustache in the process) Meap!
Doofenshmirtz: (He is still falling) Oh look, his mustache fell off, and, and I didn't think today could get any weirder!
(A large mechanical arm grabs Doofenshmirtz. It is part of a ship, which is being flown by Peter and Perry)
♪ Peter and Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Nice try, but the mustache thing was still weirder.
(A tractor beam pulls Doofenshmirtz out of the hand's grasp, and into Mitch's ship)
Mitch: I'll take that, thank you very much. (Mitch cackles as his ship flies off into space)

Meap: (The scene shifts back to Meap, who is still on the Space Needle) Meap!
Phineas: (They fly towards the needle with the hatch of their ship open, unaware of Meap on top of the Space Needle) Meap! We lost him. (They see Meap, who promptly gets into the ship) Hop in. Big Mitch grabbed the cutonium. (The hatch of the ship closes) Do you know where he's going?
Meap: Meap! (He looks at a glass panel which reads "Backup Emergency Translation Mustache". He breaks the panel, puts the mustache on, and starts speaking in an elderly English accent) He's heading back to my home planet. I must warn them! (speaking into a radio) Red Alert! Red Alert! Mitch has the cutonium, and he's on his way there. You must rally the troops, and head him off at the evil fortress. This is war!
Female Meap Operator: Meap?
Meap: Do pardon, forgot I have this silly thing on. (He takes off the mustache) Meap!
Female Meap Operator: (gasping) Meap! (She hands her notes to the Head of Radio Operations. The scene shifts to a military command room)
Head of Radio Operations: Meap! (to the Secretary to the War Council) Meap!
Secretary to the War Council: Meap! (whispering to the Lieutenant General of the Meap Army) Meap.
Lieutenant General of the Meap Army: Meap! (He hits a red button sounding an alarm)
Alarm: Meap! Meap!
(Song: "Wee Wee Wee")
♪ We we we we (whee!) ♪
♪ Are going to war (We're going to war!) ♪
♪ We're going to war (We're going to war!) ♪
♪ We we we we (whee!) ♪
♪ Are going to war (We're going to war!) ♪
♪ We're going to war (We're going to war!) ♪
♪ De- de- de- de- de- de- de- ♪
♪ Destroy our enemies! ♪
♪ La- la- la- la- la- la- la- ♪
♪ Let's bring them to their knees! ♪
♪ We we we we (whee!) ♪
♪ Are going to war (We're going to war!) ♪
♪ We're going to war (We're going to war!) ♪
♪ We we we we (whee!) ♪
♪ Are going to war (We're going to war!) ♪
♪ We're going to war (We're going to war!) ♪
(Throughout the course of the song, the "Meap Army" was shown getting ready for war, They assemble outside Mitch's fortress and start to bombard it with artillery shells. The scene shifts to Peter and Perry's ship flying towards the evil fortress. Once they arrive, the two agents melt away a part of the fortress's walls and break in. The scene shifts to Meap's ship, which is also flying towards the evil fortress)
Meap: There it is. My home world.
Isabella: Meap! Your planet's so cute! Except, I guess, for that evil-looking fortress under that ominous cloud.
Meap: Unfortunately, that's where we are going.
Candace: So, uh, do we have a plan, or are we just going to go all willy-nilly, and barge into that bad, scary place?
Phineas: You know, willy-nilly barging is a plan, of sorts.

(The scene shifts to Mitch holding Doofenshmirtz as he enters a chamber inside the fortress)
Mitch: Here we are. The extraction chamber.
Doofenshmirtz: Seriously? Y-you have an entire chamber reserved just for extracting things? That, that really comes up that often in your life? The extraction of things from other things.
Mitch: Look, I don't have to justify my life choices to you.
Doofenshmirtz: You know you can drop the whole "bad guy" spiel. (Mitch's robots strap Doofenshmirtz onto a metal panel) I'm actually willingly going along with this, in case you hadn't noticed, but, yeah, okay, you're a bad dude, cool, whatever, I get it.
Mitch: (laughing manically while holding blue orbs of fire) When the extraction is over, then you will see just how bad a dude I really a- (The blue fire starts to burn his left hand) AH! Put it out! Put it Out! Put it out! (One of his robots extinguishes the fire with a fire extinguisher) Okay, now that was... embarrassing. I, I'm going up to prepare the machine, while you two finish up here. Personally I hate the smell of extraction. (Mitch leaves)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, what does it smell like?

(The scene shifts to Meap's ship parked at a loading bay in Mitch's fortress)
Isabella: (She is putting on a pair of boots whilst talking to Meap, who is taking mirrors out of a box) Meap, why are you taking the mirrors?
Meap: (He hands her a mirror) Better safe than sorry.
Isabella: Okay.
Candace: (She is wearing a helmet) I don't know, Phineas. That door looks pretty solid. Are you going to try to hack the locking mechanism, or crack the code sequence?
Phineas: (He and Ferb are standing in front of a futuristic steel door equipped with high-tech visors and blasters) Yes, yes I am. I think the sequence is, (he pushes a red button with his blaster and the door promptly opens) push the big red button. (They enter the fortress)

(The scene shifts to the cutonium being poured back into the special container)
Doofenshmirtz: (Though he is still strapped to the metal panel, he has changed back into his usual form) Back to my old self. That, you know, that wasn't so bad. In fact I rather enjoyed large portions of that process. (Two robots load the container into a pneumatic tube, which sends it to an upper floor) Hmm, extraction. Who knew? (Peter the Panda and Perry the Platypus appear at the back of the metal panel) Peter the Panda! And Perry the Platypus! You're working together to rescue me? Oh that's really nice of you. (The two robots notice the agents and begin to advance towards Doofenshmirtz) Uh-oh. Hey guys? A little help here. (Peter and Perry pivot the metal panel upwards, which sends the robots crashing through the wall. More robots start to stream out of hatches in the walls of the chamber) This is some rescue. (Peter, Perry and Doofenshmirtz run away from the robots)

(The scene shifts to Mitch walking along a platform towards the center of a large chamber, where there is a machine waiting for him)
Mitch: Yes! My machine is fully charged with cutonium.
Meap: (He and the rest of the group are on a balcony overlooking the chamber) Hold it right there, Mitch.
Mitch: Meap! How did you get here?
Meap: With the help of Team Phineas. (He gestures to the rest of the group)
Candace: I never agreed to that name.
Mitch: You're too late. (Mitch's head vanishes from the top of his suit. A few seconds later, he reappears at the left foot of his suit as a much smaller, "Meap sized" alien) Not even you can stop me from becoming the cutest being in the universe.
Phineas: I didn't know he could do that.
Meap: Neither did I.
Mitch: (Mitch, who is standing on an elevated platform, is talking to his suit) Don't just stand there. Get them. (to the group) Boy are you going to get it now, when... (Mitch starts talking to his suit, which is finding it hard to reach the group) No! On your right! The ramp on your right! (Mitch's suit goes down the left ramp) Your other right! Yeah, when he eventually arrives up there you are in big trouble. In the meantime, behold the creation of the most adorable creature in the universe. Me!
(Mitch pulls a lever and his machine charges up. A bright, purple light envelopes his body and he floats upwards)
Meap: Oh no! He's done it! Whatever you do, don't look upon him in that state. You'll become transfixed by his cuteness and he'll gain complete control over you.
(Everybody shields their eyes, except Phineas, whose pupils dilate. Mitch transforms into a floating, caped, cute being and Phineas becomes hypnotized by Mitch's cuteness. He starts looking at Mitch in a transfixed state)
Phineas: Awwwww...

(The scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz, Perry and Peter running down a corridor away from Mitch's robots. Peter is behind Doofenshmirtz, while Perry is in front of him)
Doofenshmirtz: I just realized something about myself; apparently I run faster than a panda bear, but not quite as fast as a platypus. Eh, who knew? You really do learn things about yourself in times of crisis. Wait, wait, turn left up here. That door must be the way out. (They reach a door, which opens to reveal Balloony in an armored suit. Baloony is holding energy axes) Balloony, it's you! Oh boy am I glad to see you. (The robots stop chasing them) Chill guys, Balloony and I go way back. So Balloony it's a good thin- (Balloony swings one of his energy axes at Doofenshmirtz) Well it's been nice catching up, but uh- RUN! (Doofenshmirtz and the agents run away) I think I misjudged his devotion!

(The scene shifts to the Meap army, which is still bombarding the entrance of the fort. The door eventually breaks and the army moves in)
Meap Army: ♪ We we we we (whee!)♪
♪ Are going to war (We're going to war!) ♪
(From the platform, Mitch looks down at the Meap army, which instantly becomes hypnotized by his cuteness)
(The scene shifts back to the balcony)
Phineas: Aww, look at the little guy. What's the fastest way I can transfer all my assets into his name?
Candace: (To her phone in a panicked tone) Mom, things look pretty bleak. We may not be back after all. Phineas is in a cute trance. Mitch turned himself really adorable and defeated the entire Meap Army. There's no one left to-
Meap: (He takes off his translation mustache) Meap! (Meap grabs a mirror and swings down to the platform to confront Mitch. Meap looks at Mitch through the mirror, so as not to become hypnotized. Then, just as Mitch fires a purple death ray, Meap closes his eyes and fires a rainbow death ray. The two rays meet in the middle)
Phineas: Aww, they're blasting away at each other with really cute death rays.
(Mitch's suit finally arrives at the balcony and starts to chase Candace, Ferb and Isabella around, while Phineas continues to stare at Meap and Mitch fighting)

(The scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz using a shield to deflect the robot's lasers. Peter and Perry have been pinned down by the robots)
Doofenshmirtz: Balloony, please help me. Balloony! Oh, don't let me go like I did with you. Balloony, what ever happened to us? (Suddenly, Balloony fights and wipes out nearly all of the robots attacking Doofenshmirtz) Balloony! I knew deep down inside you were still my best friend. Think of all the good times we can have, now that we- (One of the robots which survived Balloony's onslaught fires a laser, popping Balloony) Nooo! (Balloony collapses to his knees, falling into Doofenshmirtz's arms) No. Balloony. Stay with me, I- (Peter and Perry, who are now free, look at each other and approach Doofenshmirtz, who is holding a deflated Balloony) I'm not going to let you go a second time. Balloony! I can feel my heart... popping.

(Meap and Mitch are fighting. Meap retreats and hides behind a pillar, but Mitch suddenly appears behind him. Meap gets thrown back as he becomes hypnotized by Mitch's cuteness. Mitch cackles as Meap lies on the platform. The others are still running away from Mitch's suit, except for Isabella, who kneels down next to Phineas and uses a mirror to look at the platform)
Isabella: Oh no! Meap needs our help, Phineas, Phineas! (She drags him down) Come on Phineas, snap out of it! Phineas, Meap is down, he's been out-cuted. (She takes off her helmet and briefly swishes her hair from side to side) What are we gonna do? Phineas?
(The camera focuses on Isabella before returning to Phineas, who, for a second, is still in a cute trance. Then, his eyes refocus as he regains control of his senses)
Phineas: Is-Isabella. Hey wait a minute, Isabella we've had a secret cute weapon all this time. You!
Isabella: Me?
Phineas: Don't you see? You can take him. He's only cute on the outside, but your cuteness goes right to your core.
Isabella: So what you're saying is, you think I'm cute?
Phineas: It's a scientific fact. (He picks up the Cute-tracker 2.0) I had to put an 8000-ohm resistor on the cute-tracker just to keep you from burning it out.
(There is a long, awkward pause as Phineas fidgets and pushes buttons on the Cute-tracker 2.0)
Isabella: (In a slightly annoyed tone) Close enough. I'm on it.
Phineas: You can do it Isabella, just be yourself!
(Isabella swings over to Mitch, yelling as she touches down hard on the platform)
Isabella: Hey Mitch.
(Mitch turns around. Isabella also turns around, though she is surrounded with a pink flashing aura)Whatcha doin'? (The last syllable echoes in the chamber)
Mitch: Meap! (He gets thrown backwards towards a wall, discharging his cuteness in the process. He puts on the translation mustache) Ow.
(The Meap army regains control of itself, and cheers. Meap walks over to Mitch and puts on the translation mustache)
Meap: Children, you did it. You saved not only my planet, but the entire galaxy from Mitch's adorable yet evil plan. (Phineas and Ferb slide down onto the platform) On behalf of my people, I thank you.
Phineas: It was our pleasure Meap.
Candace: (She slides down onto the platform) And I've got it all right here on my phone.
Mitch: (He begins to run away) Meap.
Candace: Hey! He's- Oh no! (She searches her pockets, but is forced to throw her phone towards the bay door. It hits a red button, falls to the floor, and breaks. The door slides downward, trapping Mitch as two Meap guards surround him) Oh no you don't!
Mitch: (He sighs) Meap.
Meap: Good work, Candace. He's going to get a serious time out now. Fifteen, sixteen minutes.
(The scene shifts to the front yard of the Flynn-Fletcher household, where the destroyed pod walker is being towed away. In the background, Meap's ship is seen landing)
Phineas: Well, it sure is great to be home.  (The scene shifts to Meap's ship parked in the backyard) Thanks for the ride Meap.
Meap: Friends, I can never thank you enough for helping me save my planet.
Phineas: Our pleasure. And I think we all learned a valuable lesson today, but we all know what it is so why waste our time restating it?
Isabella: Bye Meap!
Meap: Farewell my friends!
Phineas: Bye!
Isabella: Goodbye! (Meap's ship takes off)
Phineas: Bye Meap!
(Meap's ship takes off just before Linda walks out)
Linda: Candace, I thought I told you to take that garbage out. You are so busted, young lady.
Candace: Of...course I am.
Phineas: Hey! Where's Perry?

(The scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated. Doofenshmirtz has a disheartened look on his face when Perry walks in)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Perry the Platypus, I'm sorry there's nothing to foil, I, I'm still down about- (Perry holds up Balloony, who has been patched and fully blown up) Balloony! (An instrumental version of My Wettest Friend starts to play to a montage of Doofenshmirtz and Balloony spending time together)

End credits
(A trailer starts to play. It opens up with another aerial shot of the Earth, which promptly shifts to two spaceships ramming into each other)
Narrator: And now, a trailer for an episode we also have no plan to make.
(The scene shifts. Baljeet is water-skiing)
Baljeet: Pay attention up there!
(The scene shifts. Candace is wearing a birthday hat at what appears to be a party in the backyard. Jerry the Platypus is seen waving)
Candace: Jerry the Platypus?
(The scene shifts. Phineas and Ferb are in the city)
Phineas: Ferb, aren't those extinct?
(The scene shifts. Meap's ship is parked in the backyard, and Meap is walking away from it calmly. The ship explodes. The scene shifts. Jeremy is walking through church doors wearing a suit)
Jeremy: As a matter of fact, I object to this union.
(The scene shifts. Doofenshmirtz is in a bus)
Doofenshmirtz: (song "Sucker for Mass Transit") Yes, ♪I'm just a guy who's a sucker for the sounds of mass transit.♪
(The scene shifts. Meap and Suzy are fighting at a Bango-Ru convention in a style that is identical to their duel in the first trailer. Theatrical text rolls across the screen)
Narrator: The Chronicles of Meap, Episode 42.
(The scene shifts to a structure that looks like the Millennium Gateway Arch in St. Louis, Missouri)
Meap: Meap!
Narrator: Meap Me in St. Louis.
Doofenshmirtz: (The scene shifts back to Doofenshmirtz in the bus) Hey, wasn't that Suzy stuff supposed to be in this one?



(Scene opens with Phineas and Ferb in the backyard of the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Phineas: We'll combine the zipperoo with the terror drop, and move clown town after the Ferris wheel, and we end the whole ride with a house of mirrors bouncy castle. It's great! A city-wide amusement park on a single track. And you only have to wait in line once!
Paul: Delivery!
Phineas: Hi Paul!
Paul: Hey boys, you ordered 20 tons of building material?
Phineas: We sure did!
Paul: Okay, sign here. Hmm, thought i had a pen here somewhere...
Phineas: No problem, I'll just use the pen you left here yesterday. (signs form) Ferb and I modified it so you won't lose it again.
Paul: Huh. What did you guys do, install a homing sensor?
Ferb: Actually, we just put a clip on it.
Paul: Cool! Haha, here's your form.

(Switches to Paul driving in his truck)
Paul: Hi, dad. Yes, I just delivered to Phineas and Ferb. Yes. Yes, they are. No, I left them the blue copy.
Paul's Dad: No, son. You always have to leave them the pink copy. The blue copy's yours. You gotta take your job more seriously. Now you're running seven seconds behind!
Paul: Dad, I'm not sure if I really wanna be a delivery guy.
Paul's Dad: Of course you wanna be a delivery guy. You just don't wanna be a delivery guy who's seven seconds behind. Step it up!
Paul: Alright, Dad. Talk to you later, bye. (hangs up phone; turns on radio)
Radio DJ: Hey hey, listeners, the WJOP's party van is out there somewhere in the Tri-State Area. The first lucky listener who spot the party van and say the Phrase that Pays, wins a special prize!
Paul: (radio off) Ooh, here's my next delivery.
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Paul: What a weird looking building. (goes into Evil Incorporated to find that the elevator has broken down) Out of order? Great! (struggles up the many flights of stairs) (knocks)
Doofenshmirtz: (from inside) It's open~.
Paul: (goes in with the package) Helloo. Delivery. (a cage falls from above, trapping him in a platypus-sized cage)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, you're not Perry the Platyp- Oh, sorry about that. (retracts the trap) I was expecting someone else.
Paul: No problem. Happens to me all the time.
Doofenshmirtz: Really? (signs the form)
Paul: I'm just kidding.
Doofenshmirtz: Aaa-ah. Hey nice clip.
Paul: Thanks. Hey, I like your place. What do you do here?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, you know, different things, but today I'm building a Juice-inator (shows Paul the Inator) It's going to turn City Hall into juice!
Paul: Oho, is it now?
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, then I'm gonna take over the Tri-State Area! You know, like you too.
Paul: Well, at least you got a plan. I haven't figured out what I'm wanna do with my life.
Doofenshmirtz: Don't sell yourself short, perhaps you can be one of my minions! Not an indoor minion, but a minion that keep the coalfires burning.
Paul: Yeah, I'm not sure that's a step up. Here you go (hands blue copy then leaves)
Doofenshmirtz: You should think about that offer! Miniony! It's a growth industry. (looks at the blue copy in his hand) Oh, he forgot to leave me the pink copy.
Paul: (as he gets inside his truck) Juice City Hall, what a character.
(drives away when he passes Phineas and Ferb inside their new fun ride)
Phineas: Hi Paul. (Paul waves at him)
Paul: That's what they did with the building material!
Radio DJ: We're still looking for that first listener to spot WJOP's party van, and say the Phrase that Pays--
(stops as sudden crash is heard when the back of Paul's truck is rammed by a van)
Paul: (getting off his truck to see the van) Hey, you're the WJOP party van!
Radio DJ/Party Van Driver: Hey, you're the first listener to spot us!
Paul: Wow! If only I knew the phrase that pays.
Radio DJ: (taps his bell) That's it baby. The phrase that pays is The Phrase That Pays! You win the grand prize!
Paul: I won? I won! (fanfare) What did I win?!
Radio DJ: The band Love Händel will play at your job! (van opens to show the band inside)
(Song: You Snuck Your Way Right Into My Heart)
♪ You snuck your way right into my heart ♪
Paul: That's impossible! I work..on a truck..
(Moments later in Paul's truck)
(Song: The Ballads of Paul - 1st Stanza)
Love Händel: ♪ He keeps two hands firmly on the wheel ♪
♪ At ten and two or nine and three ♪
♪ He signals when he's changing lanes ♪
♪ He's adjusting mirrors so he can see ♪
♪ He's driving safe (He's a safe driver) ♪
♪ He's driving safe (He's a safe driver) ♪
Paul: (answering to the headset over the band noise) Uh, hello?
Paul's Dad: I got a complaint from the City Hall, they haven't got their package yet.
Love Händel: ♪ He's driving safe (He's a safe driver) ♪
♪ He's driving safe (He's a safe driver) ♪
Paul: Sorry Dad. I had a delay, but, but I'm on my way.
Love Händel: ♪ He's on his way, Yeah, yeah, he's on his way ♪
(The truck stops at a crosswalk, where Irving was just going to cross with his scrapbook in hand)
(Song: The Ballads of Paul - 2nd Stanza)
Love Händel: ♪ There's a dweeb in the crosswalk ♪
♪ Good thing we stopped in time ♪
♪ He's into his computers ♪
♪ Yeah, he's into sci-fi ♪
♪ He's into sci-fi! ♪
Irving: For your information, it's not sci-fi, it's speculative fiction.
(Song: The Ballads of Paul - 3rd Stanza)
Love Händel: ♪ Speculative fiction is such an addiction! Speculative fiction! ♪
(Irving walks away and scene shifts to the City Hall)
(Song: The Ballads of Paul - 4th Stanza)
Love Händel: ♪ We're going to the City Hall next to the Danville Mall! ♪
Roger: Finally you're here with my box.
Paul: You know, Mayor Doofenshmirtz, I just delivered  a package to a Heinz Doofenshmirtz.
Roger: (signs the form) Yes that's my older brother. Charming...man.
Paul: That box is really light.
Roger: That's because it's empty. I just needed a box. My cat loves to play with them.
(Song: The Ballads of Paul - 5th Stanza)
Love Händel: ♪ Kitty in a box, kitty in a box ♪
♪ Almost as cool as a genie in a box! ♪
Roger: Are they with you?
Paul: (sighs) Yes. Yes they are.
(Back in the van)
Paul: Well guys, like I was sayin', I'm not sure that I'm totally fulfilled as a delivery guy.
(Song: The Ballads of Paul - 6th Stanza)
Love Händel: ♪ He's not sure that he's totally fulfilled as a delivery guy (He's not sure) ♪
Paul: There's a whole world of things to do out there.
Love Händel: ♪ There's a whole world of things to do out there! ♪
(Passes Phineas and Ferb's new fun ride again)
Paul: I mean, look at..look at those kids.
Love Händel: ♪ Look at those kids- ♪
Danny: Hey, we know them. Hey Phineas! Hey Ferb! (all three waves at the kids)
Phineas: Hey guys!
Paul: (to the band) And you guys. What is it you really want?
(Song: The Ballads of Paul - 7th Stanza)
Love Händel: ♪ We're hungry and we wanna eat! ♪
♪ We're hungry and we wanna... ♪
Paul: Fine. (drives the truck to the nearest food stand)
(Scene changes to Candace and Jeremy at Mr. Slushy Dawg's as she relays her busting plan with a map)
Candace: So at this point I can grab Mom in her hair appointment and bring her over where I think the boys are heading. And calculating we'll go by that weird looking building downtown, at exactly 4.59 pm.
Jeremy: Candace, I'd really like to help you with your latest busting endeavor, but I have customers waiting. (points to the band singing in line)
Love Händel: ♪ We're hungry and we wanna eat! ♪
Paul: (answers his phone) Hey Dad, I'm just stoppin' for lunch (listens, then closes phone) He said we have another delivery for Heinz Doofenshmirtz. We gotta go back to headquarters and pick it up.
Love Händel: ♪ We'll take that to go, with extra dipping sauce ♪ (Swampy: Honey barbeque!)
(Paul is tired from climbing up the many flights of stairs in Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
Woman: (coming out of elevator, then sees Paul on the floor) You know, they fixed the elevator.
(Paul notices that the door's been broken, then he comes in)
Paul: Delivery! Again.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh goody, it's arrived. One last part for my Juice-inator.
Paul: Oh right, you're still on that juice thing.
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, my Juice-inator, my giant menacing machine that will turn City Hall into juice, completely discrediting and embarrassing my brother the Mayor at his 5pm media event. Step One, in my evil scheme to take over The TRI-STATE AREA!!
Paul: Wow. You've a rich fancy life, doncha?
(Cut to Perry taking off his fedora and reaching inside.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) I've been told so. Do you have a pen?
Paul: (offscreen) Yes, I do.
(Cut to shot of inside Perry's fedora to reveal empty spaces where his tools should be.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Oh, I remember this baby. Y'know, if I had a clip like that on my pen, I'd never lose it.
(Cut back to Doof and Paul.)
Paul: I think your little, uh...What is that, a dachshund?
Doofenshmirtz: Platypus.
(Cut to Perry trying to break his cage open.)
Paul: (offscreen) Looks like he doesn't wanna be in that cage.
(Cut back to Paul and Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, him? No, no, he likes it. (giving back the clipboard) Here ya go. (takes the package) I'll take that. Thanks for everything. See ya.
(Cut to the hallway.)
Paul: Hmm...
(Crash! Cut to reveal Love Händel at the door of the stairs out of breath and on the ground.)
Paul: Why don't you use the elevator? (walks in and pushes down) Got a song for that?
Danny: Actually, we do!
Love Händel: ♪ We just climbed up sixty-five flights! ♪
(Cut to OWCA Headquarters.)
Paul: (offscreen) The last delivery of the day. (cut to Paul and Love Händel walking up to the door) OWCA, the Organization Without a Cool Acronym. Boy, they aren't kidding.
(Paul rings the doorbell and the entrance drops down. Cut to Paul and Love Händel sliding down a tube.)
(Song: The Ballads of Paul - 8th stanza)
Love Händel: ♪ Sliding down a tube, yeah ♪
♪ Sliding down a tube ♪
♪ Sliding, sliding down a tube ♪
(Cut to Major Monogram and Carl in the main office.)
Major Monogram: Great googly moogly! A distress signal! Agent P is really trapped! Why won't he use the bevy of tools and weapons conveniently located in his hat?
(Carl puts his fingers in his mouth nervously. Paul and the band approach them.)
Paul: Delivery!
Carl: (squeaky) Um, I'm gonna sign for the package.
Major Monogram: Carl, your voice just got squeaky! I know that squeaking!
Carl: (to Paul) Uh, where do I sign?
Major Monogram: Carl, what are you not telling me?
Carl: Sir, Agent P doesn't have his hat tools. I took them out to clean and repair them.
Major Monogram: Something inside me just broke.
Carl: (reaching offscreen) I have the tools right here.
Major Monogram: Well, what good are they to him here? Poor Agent P, he's just a platypus trapped in a cage. Wearing a tiny hat, a little fedora...
(Song: The Ballads of Paul - 9th stanza)
Love Händel: ♪ A platypus in a fedora... ♪
Major Monogram: ...trapped by an evil scientist...
Love Händel: ♪ In a weird looking building... ♪
Major Monogram: ...intent on juicing City Hall.
Love Händel: (to Paul) ♪ Hey, you know that guy! ♪
Paul: Hey, I know that guy! I've seen your friend!
Love Händel: ♪ It took you long enough! ♪
Major Monogram: All of our other agents are busy out in the field. If-If only there was a way to get these tools to Agent P.
Carl: Yeah, before Doofenshmirtz juices City Hall in seven minutes!
Love Händel: ♪ Seven minutes! ♪
Paul: Hightail just happens to have a seven-minute delivery! I can get those tools to your friend! I've never used it, but here's the 237 form. Sign at the bottom here, here's a pen, initial this on page two.
Love Händel: ♪ Sign on the bottom! ♪
Paul: Put those tools in here! I've got the regulation box!
Love Händel: ♪ It's a regulation box! ♪
Paul: Aaaand you keep the pink copy. The blue copy's mine!
Major Monogram: Good luck, young man! (they leave) We could use someone like him at the Agency. Carl, why don't we have a soundtrack band?
Love Händel: ♪ Here's our card! ♪
(Cut to outside OWCA. The delivery truck speeds away. Cut to inside the truck.)
Paul: Schedule's gotta wait, Dad! I have a special delivery to make!
Love Händel: ♪ Paul's on his way to deliver some tools ♪
♪ To a platypus in a fedora ♪
♪ He's on his way ♪
♪ He's gotta save the day ♪
♪ He's only got seven minutes! Wishes he had more-a! ♪
♪ He's on his way and we're singing what he's doing! ♪
♪ So it looks like we might have a new career before us! ♪
♪ He's on his way! I guess we are, too! ♪
♪ From a pop-metal band to a rockin' Greek chorus! ♪
Paul: Rush hour! Tape yourselves together, boys! I've got an idea!
(Paul opens the sunroof and swings a roll tape like a lasso onto one of the amusement ride cars. He rides it, bringing the band with him.)
Phineas: Hey, Paul!
Paul: Hey, kids! Just hitchin' a ride! (Once they approach D.E.I., he cuts the tape apart.) Right, here's good. Thanks, guys!
Phineas: (offscreen) See ya, Paul!
(Paul rolls on the balcony and approaches Agent P with the package.)
Paul: Here ya go, dude! Sign here.
(Perry signs the clipboard and Paul gives him the pink copy. Perry opens the package and takes out the small wrench and unlocks the cage. He then takes the clipboard and throws it at Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: And... (The clipboard latches onto the lever.) Hey! (Perry punches Doof.) Perry the Platypus?! Take that! (Doof pulls a lever and Perry falls through a trap door.) You won't get out of there in time to stop me! (He pulls the lever on the inator. Cut to a wide shot to reveal Paul taping the inator shut.) What? What are you doing up there?
Paul: Just wrapping up a few loose ends!
Doofenshmirtz: Wow! Metaphorical and literal!
(Perry gets out of the trap door.)
Paul: Little dude, we should get outta here.
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Platypus and Paul the Delivery Guy!
Paul: Paul the Mobile Logistics Technician!
Doofenshmirtz: Well, excuuuuuuuse me!
(Kaboom! The building and the ride track turn into juice.)
Doofenshmirtz: (tasting the juice) Mmm...tastes like pineapple. (Love Händel swims by him.) Hey, Love Händel!
Bobbi: Hey, guys, we're covered in juice and packing tape! What does that remind you of?
Sherman: Detroit, 1984! (High fives Danny) Whoo!
(Cut to Candace's failed bust attempt.)
Linda: I can't believe you made me leave my hair appointment for this!
Candace: But...but...it's juice! (to Phineas) What do you know about this?
(Phineas and the gang shrug their shoulders.)
(Cut to OWCA Headquarters. Monogram and Carl are waiting outside. Perry and Paul hang-glide over to them.)
Major Monogram: Excellent work, young man! Excellent! Y'know, it's unprecedented, uh, you being a human, but I'd like to offer you a job at the Agency. What do you say, son? Ya wanna fight evil?
Paul: Thanks, but no thanks. I've found how I can contribute to the world. By being a mobile logistics technician!
Carl: That's a delivery guy, sir.
Major Monogram: I know what it is! (Perry reaches down and picks up Paul's pen.) Huh, nice pen.

End Credits
(standalone broadcasts only)
Paul: Well guys, like I was sayin', I'm not sure that I'm totally fulfilled as a delivery guy.
(Song: The Ballads of Paul - 6th Stanza)
Love Händel: ♪ He's not sure that he's totally fulfilled as a delivery guy (He's not sure) ♪
Paul: There's a whole world of things to do out there.
Love Händel: ♪ There's a whole world of things to do out there! ♪
(Passes Phineas and Ferb's new fun ride again)
Paul: I mean, look at..look at those kids.
Love Händel: ♪ Look at those kids- ♪
Danny: Hey, we know them. Hey Phineas! Hey Ferb! (all three waves at the kids)
Phineas: Hey guys!



(Scene opens up at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: (Talking on the phone) ...So I said, "You're not getting me up into the mountains on a day like this", (She is on the couch with dozens of fans) I'm staying right here, with my beautiful air conditioning. I'm just gonna chillax right through this one.
(Scene shifts to Betty Jo and Clyde's cabin)
Isabella: Thanks for letting us host the French Fireside Girls at your cabin, Mr. and Mrs. Flynn. This'll be a great place for them to get their North American Tracking patches.
Clyde: What did I do again?
Phineas: The French Fireside Girls, or le filles coin du feu, as they're known in their country of orgin, are going for their North American Tracking patches. And you're helping us help them.
Betty Jo: I put a sticky note on your shirt.
Clyde: (sees the note) Aww. And you wrote "love". (whispers as they leave) I knew it was there.
Betty Jo: Why do you play senile?
Clyde: I love your notes!
(A van pulls up)
Isabella: They're here! The French Fireside Girls! Or le filles coin du feu, as they're known in their country of origin.
(As she says this, the French Fireside Girls arrive.)
Brigitte/Josette/Collette: ♪ Alouette, gentille alouette, ♪
♪ Alouette, je te plumerai. ♪
Isabella: Bonjour, le filles coin du feu. Je m'appelle Isabel.
Brigitte: Oh, chi paz français. An as sassa en ou toum de? Y je buhouchs e du...
Isabella: Whoa, whoa, stop, stoppee! That's all the French I've got.
Brigitte: Dacaz. I am Brigitte, and these are Josette and Collette.
Josette/Collette: Bonjour!
Isabella: (gestures to Phineas and Ferb) And this is --
Brigitte: Phineas et Ferb! (Holds up newspaper) We read your column in Le filles en coin de feu Gazette.
Isabella: (Humbly) I'm syndicated.
Phineas: Matre de maz.
Baljeet: (He wheels in a large crate with a tarp over it) Everyone, please stand back! Keep your fingers, and berets away from the bars.
Isabella: Le filles coin du feu, to earn your American Tracking Patch, you'll have to capture the most dangerous of creatures, the vicious, American, (She pulls away the tarp, revealing Buford in a bear costume) grizzly bear.
Baljeet: He has not been fed.
(Buford roars, buts stops short when he sees Brigitte)
Isabella: My friend has graciously agreed to be the bear for today's hunt.
(Buford pulls the tarp back over the cage)
Baljeet: Excuse me. (He goes around to the back of the cage) What is up?
Buford: (he pulls Baljeet inside) Get in here! I know that girl out there!
Baljeet: You do?
Buford: Yeah, we met, in Paris. (He flashes back) It was a year ago, and I was taking in some of the local color, when I saw her, Brigitte. She was a beautiful french girl, and I was an ugly American. Which of course holds a certain mystique. With her I completely forgot myself. I read poetry, I wept at beauty, I clipped my toenails. For Brigitte, I even learned to speak the language of love, French talk.
Baljeet: Oh, that is why you are fluent in French.
Buford: It was easy actually. A lot of the root words are the same in Latin. But I can't let anyone know I have a heart, it'll ruin my tough-guy image. And believe me, the irony is not lost on me in this suit. Aw man, don't you see, if I get all gushy now, I'll be totally exposed! I can't stand it! (He pushes Baljeet aside, and flees the cage)
Isabella: There he goes. Let the tracking begin. (The girls run after him)
Baljeet: Wait, you speak Latin!?
Phineas: Go get 'em girls!
Clyde: You'll never catch me running around in a fuzzy bear suit, (He passes for a moment) in this heat.
Phineas: It is a tad sweltering. A little fun with water might be in order.
Clyde: Way ahead of ya' kiddo. (He shows them a sprinkler)
Phineas: You're on the right track Grandpa, mind if we kick it up a notch?
Clyde: I was hoping you might.
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! Hey, where's Perry?
(Perry puts on his hat, and slides into a log, where there is a monitor at the back)
Major Monogram: Good morning Agent P. I'd tell you what Doofenshmirtz is up to but the screen isn't big enough for the little box thingy over my shoulder, but I'm sure you'll figure it out when you get there. Good luck Agent P.
(Agent P leave)
Monogram: ♪ Oh give me a home, where the buffalo--♪ Moth! Moth!
Buford: Of all the clearings, of all the woods, in all the world, she had to walk into mine. (Buford's phone rings) Tell me she was deported!
Baljeet: Buford, what are you doing?
Buford: The forest is crawlin' with patch-crazed Europeans and I'm a bear in the woods. What do you think I'm doing?
Phineas: Ooh! Ooh! I know!
Buford: Am I on speaker phone? GET ME OFF OF SPEAKER PHONE!
Brigitte: This way I see a score.
Buford: They're comin'!
Phineas: How's he doin' Baljeet?
Brigitte: I want his fuzzy fent on my wall!
Baljeet: Ha, well...
Phineas: You want to help us make a super-sprinkler?
Baljeet: Yes, yes I do.
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry arrives at Doofenshmirtz's door and kicks it down, only to find another door blocking him, he kicks this one down as well, and continues to kick in eight more)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, Perry the Platypus, are you felling tired?
(The door Perry was standing on wraps itself in a sheet, trapping Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: Take a rest! I figured you'd be exhausted after breaking all those doors. I-I even put a mint on your pillow, and everything, though, I guess it's probably just stuck to the back of your head now. Sorry about that. So, let's talk about pretzels. You see Perry the Platypus, when I was younger, (Doofenshmirtz flashes back) I did a summer internship at Master Drakkenblad's Pretzel Palace, He was the biggest pretzel wizard in Drusselstein. His disproportionately delicate hands, could turn any dough into a masterpiece. But even after months, my pretzel still lacked, polish. No matter how hard I tried, my work was never good enough. I don't know why he was such a stickler, I mean it's a knot. What difference does it make as long as you can't untie it? It's a knot! Anyway, I was declared unworthy. (Doofenshmirtz's Flash back ends) So now I despise pretzels. And any pretzel related entertainment. And now Danville is having it's own Pretzel Festival! Can you even imagine how angry that makes me? Can you imagine? No? Angry enough to create the De-Twist-inator! We'll see how festive they feel after I turn all those stupid pretzels into boring straight tubes of baked dough, like-like breadsticks, which I also have a problem with, but I'm dealing with one neurosis at a time. And then, when I've straightened all their precious pretzels, I will waltz in, and take over the Tri-State Area. Yeah, I know it doesn't quite follow. I mean I even made a venn diagram. (He hold up a venn diagram, with to circles, not intersecting at all) See, the-the pretzels are here in this circle, and we're talking about taking over the Tri-State Area here, and... Yeah, no intersection, nothing. Hmm. But I'm gonna work it out you'll see.
(Phineas, Ferb, and Baljeet work on their super sprinkler underwater to the tune of the Quirky Worky Song)
Brigitte: You see here, these tracks indicated, that he went in that direction.
Isabella: Great! Come on, let's check it out!
Brigitte: But, the weight was on the balls of his feet instead of the heels, he retraced his steps to here. Voilà! the footprints continue here. This way, the hunt is on!
(Song: "Runnin' from Love (In a Bear Suit)")
♪ I've got no time for conversation, ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm runnin' from love! ♪
♪ Don't need no complication, ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm runnin' from love! ♪
♪ Wish I had better transportation ♪
♪ But I'm runnin' from love, ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm runnin', runnin' from love in a bear suit ♪
♪ Runnin' (runnin'), runnin' (runnin'), runnin' from love! (runnin' from love!) ♪
♪ Runnin' (runnin'), runnin' (runnin'), runnin' from love! ♪
♪ How about a giraffe suit? ♪
♪ Afraid I'll hit my head ♪
♪ How about a reindeer suit? ♪
♪ I can't pull that sled! ♪
♪ How about a lemming suit? ♪
♪ Afraid where I'd be led! ♪
♪ I guess I should feel lucky cause if you find yourself runnin' from love in an 
animal-themed costume, ♪
♪ You could do a whole lot worse than a bear suit ♪
♪ Runnin' (runnin'), running (runnin'), runnin' from love! (runnin' from love!) ♪
♪ Runnin' (runnin'), runnin' (runnin'), runnin' from love! ♪
♪ (Oh, runnin' from love!) Runnin' (runnin'), runnin' (runnin'), runnin' from love in a bear suit ♪
Brigitte: Fireside Girls, goggle on. (The Fireside Girls don goggles) He has gone completely animal. He smells us. Pursue!
Doofenshmirtz: And when the chickens hatch, that's when the marshmallows kick in. Oh, oh boy, this one really taxed my brain. I am telling you, I am pooped. Anyway, forget the details, the circles are touching so the plan can't miss. Now, I've got a pretzel problem, and I'm about to straighten it out. Hahaha, you see? 'Cause their pretzels, their twisted, their not straight. It's- You like that one Perry the Platypus? I've been saving it up. (Perry twists around in his trap, and using the mist that got stuck to his head, he rips off the sheet tying him down. He then launches himself at Doofenshmirtz, and causes the -inator the fire off a few shots, hitting a girl with curly hair, a yoga class, and a roller coaster)
(Buford continues to run away from the fireside girls, but unfortunately trips over a log, sending him tumbling to the edge of the lake, where he spots Phineas and Ferb's super sprinkler)
Phineas: Hey Buford, what do you think of our super sprinkler? We used low turbulence mechanics, and specific gravity to make the water hold it's shape while in motion.
Buford: You had me at super sprinkler.
Brigitte: There he is!
Isabella: Get 'em girls!
Brigitte: You cannot escape!
(Buford jumps into the water, and rides up the super sprinkler)
Brigitte: You think I am afraid of a little water, bear? Think again! (Brigitte runs after Buford)
Buford: What the-?! Aw man.
Isabella: She is really serious about getting this patch.
Josette and Collette: Oui.
Buford: (To Baljeet) Where have you been?
Baljeet: Dude, it is not my problem.
Phineas: Ferb, did you order a bear?
(Ferb says something, but it is muffled by his snorkel)
Phineas: Oh man, that would have been so funny without the snorkel.
Brigitte: Move it or lose it!
Buford: (He comes to the end of the super sprinkler) It just stops? How is that possible?
Brigitte: There is nowhere left to run bear!
Buford: No! No! Don't look at me.
Brigitte: Buford?
(Perry wraps Doofenshmirtz in his blanket, then spins him into the -inator, setting it off, and destroying it)
Doofenshmirtz: See? Another reason to hate twisting. Curse you Perry the Platypus. (The De-Twist-inator blows up)
(A ray from the -inator hits Phineas and Ferb's super sprinkler, straightening it out, making everybody fall)
Brigitte: Buford!
Buford: No! I'm not me! I'm somebody else!
Brigitte: Buford, I know it is you, but why would hide from me?
Buford: (He sighs heavily) Oh, Brigitte, I've spent years building up my tough-guy street cred. I can bounce back from the fuzzy bear suit, but being in love with a beautiful, sweet, exotic girl like yourself... If people found out about that, my image would be fini
Brigitte: Oh, Buford, you silly boy. I'm a well bread, refined European. I would never let the fireside girls know that I was vaguely interested in brute such as you. in fact, (She slaps Buford across the face) au revoir (She swims away)
Baljeet: You okay buddy?
Buford: (Dreamily) She said she was vaguely interested in me.

End Credits
♪ I've got no time for conversation, ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm runnin' from love! ♪
♪ Don't need no complication, ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm runnin' from love! ♪
♪ Wish I had better transportation ♪
♪ But I'm runnin' from love, ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm runnin', runnin' from love in a bear suit ♪
♪ Runnin' (runnin'), runnin' (runnin'), runnin' from love! (runnin' from love!) ♪
♪ Runnin' (runnin'), runnin' (runnin'), runnin' from love! ♪



(Scene opens up with Candace relaxing in the Flynn-Fletcher backyard.)
Candace: (to Stacy on the cell phone) Ok, Stace. I'm all set up. Nothing could get in between me and some good old fashioned vitamin D!
Stacy: (on the cell phone) What about busting your brothers?
Candace: Don't worry. I can do both! (grabs a pair of binoculars) I've got a perfect view of them from where I'm sitting. Oh, yeah, that's what I'm talking about. I'm all up in their grill and they don't have a clue!
Phineas: Hi, Candace.
Candace: (screams) Hey, don't you know it's rude to sneak up on someone who is trying to spy on you?
Phineas: Sorry.
Candace: What are you guys doing?
Phineas: Well, you know how we do something new everyday?
Candace: No!
Phineas: Oh, well, we try to build some big project or do something...
Candace: I'm aware of the concept, Phineas. I was just being sarcastic.
Phineas: Really? Hey, that was pretty good. Wow, I totally fell for it. (to Ferb) Ferb, I totally fell for it...
Candace: Anyway...
Phineas: Oh, right, anyway, Ferb and I decided that today, we're gonna let you pick what we're gonna do today!
Candace: Let me get this straight. You are going to allow me to pick what you are gonna build today.
Phineas: That's about the size of it, Candace.
Candace: Size! That's it! It's got to be huge. No, wait, you built a skyscraper to the moon and who knows where that went. (the camera reveals the current location of the skyscraper) No, if this summer has taught me anything, it's not the size of the project that's important. What matters is proximity. Mom's proximity. (at herself) Think, Candace, think. This could be the most important decision of your entire summer. Something that will make Mom come and see what you are building. Hmm, what will that be? (gasps) A Mom Attractor!
Phineas: Cool! You mean, like, a big tractor mother with all its little baby tractors?
Candace: No, I mean, a Mom Attractor. A big contraption that will attract Mom so that she'll come home and see what you guys built.
Phineas: Well, you heard the lady. (to Ferb) Ferb, she knows what we're gonna do today.
Candace: How can I help?
Phineas: Well, we're gonna need a list of things that Mom likes.
(Camera goes inside of the Flynn-Fletcher house, showing Lawrence Fletcher reading a book.)
Candace: Oh, hey, Dad! You know Mom pretty well.
Lawrence: Oh, yes. I'd like to think so, yes.
Candace: I'm trying to think of things that Mom likes.
Lawrence: Oh, so many things, really. Music, hobbies, you kids. Ooh! You know what she really likes, is my famous rhubarb creme brulee. I used to make it for her all the time when we were dating. Oh, it made her so happy. (Candace leaves but Lawrence doesn't notice her leaving.) You know, I should get out my toque and blowtorch and make one for her today. What a good idea, Candace. Thank you. (notices Candace has left) Candace? Well, all right then.

(Camera cuts to Perry making his entrance to his lair.)
Major Monogram: Ah, there you are, Agent P. Well, let's get down to brass tacks or whatever it is tacks are made of these days. It seems that Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been buying up all the polyethylene in town. It's a substance apparently used in disposable baby diapers. It could be an evil scheme or it could just be neutral. Get out there and absorb the situation. Now, since your hovercraft is in the shop, Carl has had to arrange last minute alternative transportation for you.
Carl: Yes. Hello, Agent P. So, yeah, go ahead and put on that fruit hat.
(A fruit hat appears beside Perry. He stares at the screen for a second before removing his fedora and putting on the fruit hat. Suddenly, a gorilla appears and transports Perry away from his lair.)

(The camera goes back to the Flynn-Fletcher house, showing Lawrence preparing to make a rhubarb creme brulee for Linda while singing the Quirky Worky song. He gets the things needed to make it before putting on a chef's hat.)
Lawrence: (gets a blowtorch and activates it, releasing a huge blue flame.) Whoo!

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Gonna mallet, mallet, mallet in the morning. Mallet, mallet, mallet all day. ♪
(The gorilla with Perry crashes behind Doofenshmirtz.)
Doofenshmirtz: What is this? Some sort of Latin gorilla cha-cha gram? Hola.
(Perry removes the fruit hat and puts on his fedora.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ay caramba! Perry the cha-cha gram? I mean, Platy... Obviously, you're Perry the Platypus.
(The gorilla leaves and just crashes through the door.)
Doofenshmirtz: And I was... Use the door! Yeah, that was, uh, hmm, not... Not, uh, good. Oh well. (pushes a button to trap Perry) There, that's better! I much prefer you trussed up in my happy Jump-inator! Which goes with the theme of my new scheme, the Baby-Cry-inator! I know what you're saying. "But, Heinz, you've already done a baby-themed evil plot." But this time, I've really nailed it. Let me explain.
(A screen rises up from the floor, which, with Heinz's control, shows several pictures that frequently depicts Roger.)
Doofenshmirtz: You remember my goody two-shoes brother, Roger, the mayor? It is a well-known fact that no politician can pass up kissing a baby for fear of alienating the electorate. This can be risky, though, because if the baby cries, you can alienate the electorate even worse than if you refuse to kiss the baby in the first place. This has never really been a problem for Roger, though, everybody loves Roger! Babies, voters, dogs, cats, guys with shovels, giant squid, you name it. But this little baby, and by "little baby", I mean enormous baby, is gonna change all of that! Today, when my brother is campaigning, every time he kisses a baby, I will uncork the Baby-Cry-inator, releasing such a wail that the voters will think he is universally hated by babies, and therefore, untrustworthy. I know it sounds complicated but I've thought this one through. Babies cry, everyone's unhappy, and I somehow take over. (a short pause) It's foolproof!

(Meanwhile, at the Flynn-Fletcher backyard...)
Phineas: Hey, Candace. Check it out.
Candace: Oh, my mom! That is so cool!
Phineas: Yep. The Attractor will extract the essence of things that Mom loves, and use it to attract Mom! (puts the following things inside an opening on the invention) Things like Mom's Love Händel albums, an assortment of her favorite chocolate and scented candles, and of course, Mom's lucky Viking helmet.
Candace: Why does she have one of those?
Ferb: Women are a mystery.
Candace: That's got to be one of the coolest things you've ever built.
Phineas: Yes, yes, it is.
Candace: Let's try it out.
(She pushes a button which closes the opening on the invention. Nothing happens afterwards.)
Candace: Hey, uh, I don't hear anything!
Phineas: That's 'cause you're not Mom.
Candace: (Her cell phone rings.) Hi, Mom. What? You feel a sudden and inexplicable urge to come home? (to Phineas and Ferb) (gasps) It's working! It's functioning properly.
Linda: (in a hair salon) Bye, ladies. I have a sudden and inexplicable urge to come home.
Candace: (back in the backyard) I am awesome! ♪ Awesome, awesome, awesome. Awesome, awesome, awesome. Awesome, awesome, awesome. Awesome, awesome, awesome. ♪
Phineas: Candace is awesome.
Phineas and Candace: ♪ Awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome... ♪
(Back at Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
Doofenshmirtz: (he is hammering the Baby-Cry-inator with a mallet softly.)  ♪ Gonna mallet, mallet, mallet in the morning. Mallet, mallet, mallet all day. ♪ I don't know when I learned this mallet song, but it's really catchy.
(Perry tackles Doofenshmirtz using his trap.)
Doofenshmirtz: (grunts) Hey! Ow! (He sees Perry starting to charge towards the Baby-Cry-inator.) Hey, I wouldn't, I wouldn't do that if I were...
(Having enough power, Perry jumps towards the Baby-Cry-inator. He removes the pacifier from the inator. The Baby-Cry-inator wails loudly, causing Doofenshmirtz to cover his ears.)
(At the Flynn-Fletcher front yard, Candace is waiting for Linda to come home.)
Candace: Come on, come on! Yes! Mom's coming! (Linda is shown running towards the house.) I just wanna remember this moment. Relish it. Revel in it. Bask in the sunlight of pure, busting bliss! (Candace continues to hear the Baby-Cry-inator's wail and wonders where is it coming from.) What is all that racket?
(The Baby-Cry-inator is once again shown, still wailing very loudly. In reaction to the Baby-Cry-inator's wail, Linda gasps. She then proceeds to run away from the house.)
Candace: Huh? Wait! Mom! (she runs back to the backyard) Phineas and Ferb, why is it not working?
Phineas: Oh, it's working, Candace. It's just that nothing attracts moms more than the sound of a baby crying!
(The Mom Attractor stands on its own.)
Mom Attractor: (in a robotic voice) Must soothe baby! (runs away from the house)
Phineas: Well, apparently, the Mom Attractor has become self-aware. Cool!
Candace: Wait, Mom!
(Song: We Are the Moms)
(As the song plays, several mothers from different parts of Danville are leaving their work and marching to the Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated in response to the baby's wail. While this is happening, Perry and Doofenshmirtz fight using several things, including the giant pacifier, the happy Jump-inator, and several baby toys.)
♪ Mom mom, mom ma-mom mom mom mom ♪
♪ Mom mom, mom ma-mom mom mom mom ♪
♪ We're leaving our work, we're closing our laptops, and responding to the cry. ♪
♪ We gotta make sure the baby's fed and, more importantly, they're dry. ♪
♪ We're professional nose-wipers ♪
♪ And know every brand of diaper. ♪
♪ But you have to pay the piper. ♪
♪ Don't you ever call us gripers. ♪
♪ Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. ♪
♪ We are the moms and we can't resist the calling. ♪
♪ We are the moms and we hear a baby bawling. ♪
♪ We are the moms and everything you've heard is all quite true. ♪
♪ 'Cause moms will always come through. ♪
♪ Moms will always come through. ♪
♪ Ooh, yeah. ♪
♪ We are the moms who get you into your pajamas. ♪
♪ We are the moms and we could do without the drama. ♪
♪ We are the moms and we'll always do what mamas do. ♪
♪ 'Cause moms will always come through. ♪
♪ 'Cause moms will always come through. ♪
♪ 'Cause moms will always come through. ♪
♪ 'Cause moms will always come through. ♪
♪ 'Cause moms will always come through. ♪
(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, the moms burst through Doofenshmirtz door.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, wait! (The camera shows the Mom Attractor climbing to the top of the building.) There's too many mommies! Do something!
(The Mom Attractor arrives at the top of the building to try to stop the Baby-Cry-inator's wail.)
Mom Attractor: Must soothe baby.
(The Mom Attractor gets the Baby-Cry-inator and pats it on its back. The Baby-Cry-inator's wail stops. All of the mothers immediately realize where they are and wonder what they are doing in the building.)
Mom 1: What am I doing here?
Mom 2: My goodness!
Mom 3: I better get back to pitching my board.
Mom 4: I need to pick up Will from soccer.
Mom 5: How did I get here?
(All of the mothers leave and get back to work.)

(At Roger Doofenshmirtz's campaign...)
P.A. Announcer: Ladies and gentlemen, Mayor Roger Doofenshmirtz.
Voter 1: What happened to that giant crying baby?
Voter 2: Roger Doofenshmirtz came and it just stopped.
Voter 1: Babies love him!
Voter 2: Four more years!
All: Four more years!
(Back at Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
Mom 6: Oh no! I left a pie in the oven.
Mom 7: Who's watching my classroom?
Mom 8: My watermelon!
(The camera shows that Doofenshmirtz's place was cleaned and shined.)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, this place has never looked neater than this!
(Perry puts on his fruit hat once again, causing the gorilla to suddenly appear from the ground and take him.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, no! I just had the place cleaned. Curse you, Perry the Platypus and your destructive, fruit-loving simian friend who doesn't know how to use the door! Curse him, too!
(At the Flynn-Fletcher house...)
Linda: Candace, let go!
Candace: Mom! Phineas and Ferb made a Mom Attractor and it's in the backyard! (opens the door to the backyard) See?!
Linda: Yes. (goes through gate) Yes, there is a Mom Attractor in the backyard.
Lawrence: Hello, darling. Look, I made my famous rhubarb creme brulee. Mmm, eh?
Linda: Don't mind if I do.
Candace: But -- they asked me to pick -- and I did -- and it worked -- and now -- it's gone! Where did it go? Where does it always go?!

(The camera reveals that the Mom Attractor is taking care of the Baby-Cry-inator while marching away.)
Baby-Cry-inator: Mama.
Mom Attractor: There. There.

(The camera cuts back to the backyard.)
Linda: This is too cool! Whose idea was this?
Lawrence: Oh, it was Candace's, actually.
Linda: (referring to Candace) You, my dear, are pretty awesome. (hands the rhubarb creme brulee to Candace.)
Candace: (sadly) ♪ Awesome, awesome, awesome...♪



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house)
(In Candace's room)
Candace: I've got a feeling that today is the day. Even as we speak, my brothers are planning something dangerous, disguised as playing cards!
(Scene shifts to the backyard.)
Isabella: Well I'm out.
Phineas: Me too.
Buford: (Laughs) Losers.
Baljeet: (enters the backyard) Sorry, I'm late.
Phineas: That's okay. (at Ferb) Deal him in, Ferb.
Buford: Who came up with cards anyway?
Baljeet: They were invented by ancient Babylonian traders and merchants.
Ferb: (while shuffling the cards) Actually, the Babylonians had defunct as a distinct culture for millennium prior to the introduction of playing cards in India.
Baljeet: (Gasps) That is right! Three months of summer vacation and I am losing my edge!
Buford: Has it only been three months? 'Cause I've been adding up all of the things we built this summer, and we're way over 150!
Baljeet: Oh! My brain is atrophied! It needs exercise!
Phineas: Gang, I know what we're gonna do today!
Buford: And Perry?
Phineas: Who knows?
(scene switches at Flynn-Fletcher Antiques)
Lawrence: And here, we have a marvel 16th century wardrobe. We have one just like this when I was a schoolboy. And inside it was another land filled with magical woodland creatures.
Woman: Ohhh hohoho. You English and your fantasy worlds.
Lawrence: Ahahah. Can I show you some tables...
(Lawrence and the woman walks then Perry opens the box and grab his fedora and enters in the wardrobe. The wardrobe has some trees and snowing inside his lair.)
Major Monogram: Hello Agent P, sorry about the trees they were leftovers from Christmas and we didn't have anywhere else to store 'em. Oh, and uh, also the air-conditioning system is on the fritz, so pardon all the frost. All over the Tri-State Area, keys are disappearing. Businesses can't open, the freeways have ground to a halt, citizens are locked out of their homes, and I, for one, would really like to get into the executive washroom. It's got a waterfall, you know you wave your hand to the water just sort of-... well it's...it's really cool. Stop Doofenshmirtz! Quickly!
(Perry then leaves)
(scene switches at the Flynn-Fletcher backyard. Baljeet comes inside carrying 2 X-rays)
Baljeet: Look at this! (he shows a X-ray of a brain) This is my brain during the school year... (He then shows the other X-ray) And this is my brain now!
Isabella: They look just the same.
Baljeet: I know! But it took me three minutes to remember how to give my self a CAT scan! I am slipping!
Phineas: Not to worry, Baljeet. We've done a bit of cerebro-stimulatory haberdashery since you left.
Baljeet: Huh?
Buford: We made a hat for your brain, slowy. (at Isabella) Boy, he is slippin'.
Phineas: Try it on!
Baljeet: What does it do?
Phineas: Hold on. (Phineas then switch a control box) It stimulates your brain.
Baljeet: Oh my.
(Switch to Candace in her room)
Candace: (in her room) An electrical bike helmet? Lame! (she then lie down in bed then dials in her phone) Hey Stacy, you still wanna go to the pool?
Phineas: So Baljeet, how many sub-atomic particles do you suppose...are in that dandelion?
Baljeet: (goes over to the dandelion and picks it) Hmm... (drawing on the fence) Two point seven-three-two times ten to the twenty-sixth power of particles. But I could not tell you the exact location of any of them because of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle.
Phineas: Seems like it works.
(At D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Bow, chicka, bow-wow! That's what my baby says! Mow-mow-mow! And a something something -- ♪
(Perry jumps through the closet, making Doofenshmirtz fall back)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? You know, you could've waited till I put my pants on, that would've...least been polite. And do you know what we do to rude people around here? (presses remote, trapping Perry in a capsule) We put them in a water soluble capsule. Ha ha! And there's not enough platypus spit in the world to get you out of it. Yeah, hop this way, let me show you what I've been up to.
(Perry follows Doofenshmirtz into a room filled with keys)
Doofenshmirtz: Keys, keys, keys! Master keys, skeleton keys, latch keys, skate keys, I love keys! And you know, take it from me, (on the roof) once you've accidentally locked yourself in a milk can full of cockroaches for a couple of hours, you'll—you'll develop a real appreciation. But uh, collecting keys one at a time takes forever! That's why I've invented: THE KEY-FIND-INATOR! Or the Find-a-Key-inator! I -- I haven't quite figured out what I want to call it. Cool, huh? Soon, I will be able to open any door in the Tri-State Area, it's -- it's brilliant. Uh, but my key chain is enormous. And—and it weighs a ton and everyone can hear me coming. What I really need is one key that opens everything! The Key to the City! My pompous brother, the mayor, is always handing it out to some yokel of dubious qualifications. Well, today, it's going to be this yokel of dubious qualifications.
(Back in the backyard)
Phineas: Wow, look at him go.
Isabella: He's like a new man!
Buford: Ah, he still gets de-pansed one leg at a time.
Baljeet: This is great! With my stimulated brain, I am dreaming up all sorts of super smart projects!
Phineas: Great!
Isabella: Picked out a favorite?
Baljeet: I have! You see, the greatest impediment to making astronomical observations, is our atmosphere. It is like looking through pea soup! So to make our terrestrial telescopes more effective, I am going to take all of the Earth
s atmosphere, and put it on the moon! (shows poster that shows what he's saying)
Phineas: Uh...
Isabella: I don't...um...
Buford: Sounds... suffocatey.
Baljeet: Aw, I will disintegrate that bridge when I come to it.
Isabella: But Baljeet, if the atmosphere is gone --
Baljeet: And it is so simple! I can use an ion coupling device to attract each atmospheric molecule to the second greatest gravity source, which in this case, is the moon, and after the initial impact...
Isabella: (At the camera) He is so hard-core!
Baljeet: ...the particles will bounce up into lunar orbit! Blue skies on the moon! Imagine that!
(As he talks, Baljeet begins to build a universal transfer tower)
Phineas: Hey, Baljeet? Can I talk to you for a second?
Baljeet: Of course! I will just use small words!
Phineas: So...uh, we were hoping we could talk you out of transferring the Earth's atmosphere to the moon.
Baljeet: On the eve of my greatest triumph? (starts fidgeting)
Phineas: Well, we were just thinking it would be sort of a hollow victory, you know, with everybody not being able to breathe anymore?
Baljeet: (stops fidgeting) Science marches on!
Phineas: Okay, thanks! Brain booster, in retrospect...not such a good idea.
Buford: I think Brain Boy's had enough stimulation for one day. (tries to touch the control unit but gets shocked) Ow! Hey, that hurts!
Baljeet: Yes! Yes, it does! This way my work will not be interrupted by creatures who cannot possibly understand it! Like raccoons, or people, for instance.
Isabella: I was so looking forward to Junior High.
Phineas: We're going to have to get into that tower. Any ideas?
(switches to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, so the, uh, Key to the City ceremony's not starting for a while so, uh...we got some...Oh, you know, I-I just realized that I'm...I'm wearing a white lab coat and I'm leaning back against a black tire. That's... (sighs) I think I might have to go change.
(In Baljeet's tower)
Phineas: (over monitor) Maybe we could each get a tool, and come at him from four different sides.
Isabella: (over monitor) Baljeet is way to smart to fall for a trick like that.
(continues under)
Baljeet: Plot all you want, I have my eye on you! No one will be able to stop me from stripping away the Earth's atmosphere! Oh, the things I will be able to see!
(outside, decoys of Phineas, Isabella, Ferb and Buford are in place of the real kids with a tape recorder)
Phineas recording: He was smart before, but now he's like a super genius!
Isabella recording: Maybe, we should try flattery to win him over.
Buford recording: Or, how 'bout a bribe?
Phineas recording: I don't think we could offer him anything that would satisfy his super intellect.
Isabella recording: Yeah, he's so amazingly smart, now.
(camera pans underground, revealing the real kids with jetpacks)
Phineas: All right, gang. This is our change to attack the Atmospheric Device.
Isabella: He's bound to notice that.
Phineas: Exactly!
Buford: This is just busy work, isn't it?
(Phineas peeks out of a manhole on the street, then he and the gang blast out on their jetpacks. Baljeet's camera spots them)
Baljeet: Jetpacks? I thought you were -- (picks up Isabella's decoy) Wood pulp effigies? Ha ha ha ha! Clever, but not clever enough!
(Song: "Big Brain")
(laughter)
♪ Be careful where you tread ♪
Baljeet: Ha!
♪ You got me seein' red ♪
♪ I'm a mental thoroughbred ♪
Baljeet: Huh?
♪ All the secrets of the universe are in my head ♪
♪ You won't get very far, I want to see the stars ♪
♪ Maybe later on, I'll build a rocket to Mars ♪
♪ Now you're gonna feel the pain ♪
♪ 'Cause you're taking on the big brain (Big brain, yeah!) ♪
♪ Taking on the big brain. (Big brain, yeah) ♪
♪ You're looking like you're dragging your cerebral feet ♪
♪ I know you're all mental midgets, so I'm gonna repeat ♪
♪ I'm using little words to make it plain ♪
♪ Ain't no taking on the big brain (big brain, yeah!) ♪
♪ (Oh) No hope of taking on the big brain (big brain, yeah!) ♪
♪ There's no use taking on the big brain (big brain, yeah!) ♪
♪ (Oh) I said you're taking on the big brain (big brain, yeah, yeah!) ♪
♪ He's a big brain (yeah) ♪
(Baljeet manages to zap the kids, but they are obviously stuffed versions of themselves)
Baljeet: Aww! I got you in my tractor beam! (starts pushing buttons) Time to strip the atmosphere from our planet, and allow an unobstructed view of the cosmos!
(the Atmospheric Device starts to static, causing dark clouds to cover the sun and the scene to go all foggy like. The same dark clouds begin to cover the earth)
(Cut to Candace coming out the door in a swimsuit)
Candace: Danville Pool, Here I...
(she stops in place as she sees the Atmospheric Device, then dials the phone)
Candace: (sternly) Hello, Mom?
(cut to Linda at the bank, a man and woman behind her are sobbing)
Linda: Uh-huh? Uh-huh. That would count as dangerous. But I can't go anywhere until I find my keys.
(The scene gets more dark as we shift to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow! Great mad scientist weather, isn't it, Perry the Platypus? It's so dramatic! Ooh, the ceremony should be starting now.
(shift to Roger)
Roger: And now, it is my pleasure to present the Key to the City to this great humanitarian and American.
(applause)
Recipient: Th-thank you, thank you. Um, you know, when I set out to reinvent the ball-peen hammer -- (inator ray hits the key) HEY!
(shift back to Doofenshmirtz as it starts to rain)
Doofenshmirtz: I've got it! I've got it! (at Perry) There, you see? I told you it was water solu -- (Perry's capsule melts and he punches him) OH!
(The fog over the earth begins to swirl and rise toward the moon)
Baljeet: Only a few more seconds to my greatest triumph! I wonder what I will do tomorrow.
Phineas: (over speaker) Attention, Baljeet! Prepare to surrender!
Baljeet: Ha ha ha ha! Surrender to whom? You are frozen!
Phineas: (over speaker) Are we?
(Scene zooms to the stuffed Phineas in the tractor beam)
Baljeet: That is not possible! Well, I mean, clearly, it is possible, but highly unlikely. Prepare to be --
Buford: SURPRISE! (pulls Baljeet's helmet off and sees his giant brain) OH! OH! Oh, that is SO GROSS! But it's kinda awesome.
(Baljeet's brain deflates)
Baljeet: Something is different. (at Buford) How did you get in here?
Phineas: We tunneled up through the base while you were busy with our jetpack decoys.
Baljeet: I do not understand.
Phineas: Well, remember when we all made those life-sized stuffed models of ourselves this morning?
Baljeet: No.
Ferb: It pays to show up on time.
Baljeet: I will get an alarm clock.
Electronic voice: Two minutes to atmospheric transfer.
Baljeet: Oh! It is too late! I do not understand the controls anymore!
Isabella: Didn't you build a fail-safe or something?
Baljeet: YES! Of course! It is right here, and the key is right on that hook! (notices there isn't a key and gasps)
(At D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Here it comes! Here it comes! (gets the key) Ha ha! I got it! At last, I, Heinz Doofenshmirtz, can open any door with this, the Key to the City—you know, I can't believe it's cartoonishly big. It's almost like it's not a real key, but just sort of, symbolic of a key. It's... (sees Perry) Hey, what are you doing?
(Perry sets the inator to "Returninate All Keys" and the inator begins to spit all the keys out. It self-destructs)
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, well, whatever, Perry the Platypus. (as Perry leaves) I got what I want! This giant, metal key that, when I think about it, is probably too big to fit into any of the keyholes that I would ever come across. Which makes me question the whole val -- (gets shocked by lightning)
(At the bank)
Linda: Oh, I'll just call the -- (her keys land in her hand, followed by the man and woman behind her) Oh, for goodness sake! They were in my hand the whole time!
(Back at the Atmospheric Device)
Electronic: Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four...
Baljeet: AAAAAHHHHH! WHERE IS THE KEY?! WHERE IS IT?!
(a key lands on the key rack)
Isabella: Is this it?
Baljeet: Yes!!
Electronic voice: ...three, two, one.
(Baljeet inserts the key into a lock and turns it)
Electronic voice: Atmospheric Transfer terminated.
Baljeet: (sighs)
(The Earth's transfer fog retreats and disappears, returning the scene to a nice sunny day)
Isabella: We should do something about that helmet, huh?
Buford: No! No, you should not! (he is wearing the helmet) I used my now vastly superior intellect to build the world's largest wedgie machine!
(Phineas, Ferb and Isabella take one step away from Baljeet)
Baljeet: Boy, you try to eliminate the atmosphere one time...
(Cut to Linda's car in the driveway, Candace runs up to her)
Candace: Mom! Mom! Backyard!
(Buford laughs loudly as Baljeet shudders and whimpers. Buford reaches toward Baljeet as if he was gonna wedgie him, but the wedgie machine grabs the Atmospheric Device and rockets into space with it, along with the helmet still connected to it, which is right on schedule for Linda and Candace to arrive in the backyard as Buford's brain deflates)
Candace: (With her eyes closed) Look!
Phineas: Hi, Mom!
Buford: Something is...different.
Candace: (opens her eyes) But there was a -- monstrous building here just a second ago!
Linda: Well, it pays to be on time. (at the kids) Who wants pie?
Phineas: I know I do!
Buford/Isabella/Baljeet: Oh, me!/Me, me, me!/Me, me, me!/Me!
(Perry enters the yard as Candace hangs her head in shame)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
(Perry chatters)
Candace: I'm going to get an alarm clock.

End Credits
(Song: "Big Brain")
♪ You're looking like you're dragging your cerebral feet ♪
♪ I know you're all mental midgets, so I'm gonna repeat ♪
♪ I'm using little words to make it plain ♪
♪ Ain't no taking on the big brain (big brain, yeah!) ♪
♪ (Oh) No hope of taking on the big brain (big brain, yeah!) ♪
♪ There's no use taking on the big brain (big brain, yeah!) ♪
♪ (Oh) I said you're taking on the big brain (big brain, yeah, yeah!) ♪
♪ He's a big brain (yeah) ♪



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Linda: Candace, honey, I'm going out to a birthday party.
Candace: For who?
Linda: You know Vivian's aunt's sister's landlord's son?
Candace: Evan?
Linda: His son.
Candace: Dexter?
Linda: Yeah. It's his birthday.
Candace: Why do they even have parties for two-year-olds? It's not like they're going to remember anything.
Linda: Baby parties aren't for the babies, Candace. They're for the moms.
Candace: The moms?
Linda: So they can feel rewarded for all the hard work they do.
Candace: (scoffs) Toddlers are easy. They eat, they poop, they sleep. End of story.
Linda: You're a laugh riot, Candace. (starts to leave) Think you can handle watching Phineas and Ferb today?
Candace: Piece of cake.
Linda: Have fun.
Candace: Hmm. Time to be in charge.
(Scene switches to Phineas and Ferb in the backyard)
Phineas: So what you're saying is that we should never cut the red wire first.
Candace: Okay, you two, I'm in charge and I'm gonna lay down some rules!
Phineas: Okay, shoot.
Candace: No leaving the yard, no amusement park rides, no robots, no rocket ships, (in background) no time chairs, no remote-controlled llamas, (onscreen) no first edition issuing of commemorative coins, no asking where Perry is, no astrological planetary alignments...
Phineas: (While Candace is talking) Ferb, are you getting all of this? (Ferb holds up a miniature tape recorder) Cool.
(Scene switches to Perry, who lifts up a board and uses it as a diving board to jump into a pool. In his lair, he jumps onto his chair and notices Doofenshmirtz on the monitor.)
Doofenshmirtz: Surprise! It's me! I've taken over the OWCA!
(Camera pans to Perry then back at the monitor where Major Monogram moves Doofenshmirtz off screen with a finger.)
Major Monogram: Oh, no, he hasn't, Agent P.
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, spoilsport.
Major Monogram: Doofenshmirtz claims to have given up evil. He even signed this "I Give Up Evil" affidavit to apply for work at the agency. And normally, we could have rejected him because he's not an animal, but it turns out he was adopted by ocelots, making him, in the eyes of law, an ocelot.
(Doofenshmirtz purrs)
Major Monogram: Sorry to do this to you, Agent P, but we're making Doofenshmirtz your responsibility during his probation period. Show him the ropes, and, uh, don't let him out of your sight.
(Camera pans back to Perry, who salutes)
(In the OWCA HQ, Perry and Doofenshmirtz are walking by some of the cubicles.)
Doofenshmirtz: You're probably wondering why I suddenly decided to quit evil and become a good guy. Well you see, I'd just built an inator. I called it the Babe-inator! No, it's not what you think. It's purpose was to transform my brother, the Mayor, and all of his cronies into a bunch of crying babies. That way I could take City Hall like babies taking candy away from... whatever they take candy... Aw, you know what I mean. Anyway, the Babe-inator was ready to go, so I took aim at my brother's office and pressed the button, but it didn't work! It didn't work for, like, the hundredth time! My evil plan did not work! And I thought to myself, "Maybe I'm just not good at being evil." That's when I had my epiphany. From now on, I'm going to be a good guy! So, here I am!
(They stop walking and Perry shows Doofenshmirtz his cubicle)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, my own cubicle. (Agent Kitty joins him and Perry) How nice! I'm gonna put a poster, right here, with a kitten that says, "Hang in there." (Doofenshmirtz turns and sees Agent Kitty; chuckles awkwardly) No offense. It's not like I think that's all you guys do, or anything. (Agent Kitty walks off) Oh, great, now he's going to Human Resources.
(Scene switches to Norm at Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Norm: Oopsies! Better plug this in!
(He does so, and a ray shoots out of the Babe-inator)
(Scene switches to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Candace: And no invisible paint.
(The ray from the Babe-inator hits Phineas and Ferb. Phineas babbles then blows a raspberry. Ferb babbles.)
Candace: Oh, my gosh. I don't know how you turned yourselves into babies, but that is sooo bustable! (Holds up her phone) Smile and say, "Hi, Mom!"
(Candace takes a picture with her phone)
Candace: Now, you two are so... (Gasps) Where did they go? (goes off-screen and Ferb comes on) Come back here! No, put the power drill down!
(Candace comes on holding Phineas and sets him down)
Candace: You stay right...
(Ferb grabs her phone and walks off)
Candace: Ferb! No, get back here with my phone.
(Scene switches to Doofenshmirtz in his cubicle)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, would you look at that! Newton the Gnu is Agent Silent G. Whoo! I have to blog this. (Notices agents walking by with cups of coffee) Hmm, must be a coffee break. (Computer screen starts blinking saying "security breach" and he turns it off without looking)
(Scene switches to Candace in the backyard)
Candace: Find the picture and send.
(Switches to Linda at Dexter's party. Linda's cell phone beeps. She takes it out and sees the picture Candace sent.)
Linda: Oh, they used to be so cute.
(Switches back to Candace. Candace's cell phone beeps. She takes it out and reads a text.)
Candace: "Thanks for the old baby picture." (Sighs) Ooh, wait! I need something with today's date on it. I could take a picture of them with one of those old-fashioned things. It's like a web page with... printed on paper... A newspaper! Ha-ha! (Runs around trying to get Ferb to hold the paper) Okay, stop and hold the paper. Ferb, sweetie? Okay, just stand here and... No! No, don't run away! Wait! Hold it! No, no, no, no. Get back here. How about if we just sit? Then hold the paper. (Ferb throws it) We don't... We... No, don't throw it. Wait! (Candace gives up on Ferb and goes to Phineas) Okay, just hold this. Stay.
Phineas: Gah! (Throws the paper)
Candace: Phineas, no! No throwing. (Phineas crawls to her phone) We use our... (Phineas licks her phone) Ew! (Phineas throws it and it hits Candace) Ow! (Candace tries again on Ferb) Okay, hold this, Ferb. Now, I'll just... Where's my phone?
Phineas: Gah! (Throws her phone into a bird bath)
(Ferb rips up the paper)
Candace: Okay, fine! Okay, if pictures won't work, I'll just take you to Mom myself! I know we have an old stroller around here somewhere. (Candace finds a stroller and straps in Phineas and Ferb and they fall asleep) That's it, go right to sleep. You'll be busted in just a little bit.
(Scene shifts to the break room, where Doofenshmirtz and few of the other agents are drinking coffee.)
Doofenshmirtz: So then, the duck says, "got any grapes?"
(The agents, excluding the duck, all laugh. Agent P enters)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh-oh, it looks like, uh, coffee break's over.
(Switches to Major Monogram in his office. Doofenshmirtz and/or Perry knocks.)
Major Monogram: Enter. (Doofenshmirtz and Perry enter) Agent P, we have a situation.
Doofenshmirtz: Is this about that grape joke? Who told on me? Was it the duck?!
Major Monogram: That's not why I called you in. Get a look at this. This is Newton the Gnu. He was assigned to Dr. Diminutive, but it seems some bonehead blew his cover on the blogosphere.
(While Major Monogram is talking, Doofenshmirtz scratches his ear.)
We still haven't found out who it was. In the meantime, we need you to bring him in. Get on it, Agent P, and, uh, take Doofenshmirtz with you.
Doofenshmirtz: A ride-along? Sweet! I can wear my new fedora!
Major Monogram: Get out of here! (Doofenshmirtz and Perry leave and Carl walks by with a mail cart) Carl, get in here! When you're done delivering the mail, I want you to wash and wax my car. You know, a little wax on, wax off? It'll teach you karate!
Carl: No, it won't.
(Scene switches to a room where Agent D fills up Perry's hover car with gas. The dog agent leaves as Doofenshmirtz and Perry walk up.)
Doofenshmirtz: I am loving this! We're all like partners, now! Like Jack and Jill, or Alice and Wonderland! And with a super-cool vehicle!
(Switches to the exterior of the O.W.C.A. headquarters, where Major Monogram watches Doofenshmirtz and Perry fly away through his office window)
Major Monogram: Be careful out there... (looks at Carl) ...washing my car. Don't scratch it.
Doofenshmirtz: Ooh, look at these buttons! What does this one do? (he pushes a button which launches a missile) Whoa! Oh, yeah, this is way cool!
(The missile returns to Earth, causing Carl to run away before it blows up Major Monogram's car)
Major Monogram: DOOFENSHMIRTZ!
(Scene switches to Candace pushing Phineas and Ferb's stroller through the park.)
Candace: (chuckles) Wait till Mom sees you guys. (Baby Ferb starts crying) Shh!
(Everybody at the park stares at her)
Candace: I didn't do anything! He's my brother, just a baby. They cry you know. (Now Baby Phineas start crying now he cried with him then puts Ferb back his stroller) I know! Toys! I buy you some toys; that's what makes babies stop crying! (pushes the stroller towards a store that coincidentally sells baby things) Oh, thank you. (the stroller gets stuck in the door) I'll just be a second, okay? Don't go anywhere. Stay!
(The babies continue crying, then a robber comes in on his motorcycle and runs into the store. Phineas and Ferb stop crying and pull tools out of their diapers)
(Switches to the exterior of Dr. Diminutive's apartment)
Doofenshmirtz: This apartment seems familiar. Hey, do you mind if I kick down the door? (he does so, proceeding to get his foot stuck)
Dr. Diminutive: (opens door) Ugh, Doofenshmirtz?
Doofenshmirtz: Awkward!
Dr. Diminutive: Why are you wearing a fedora?
Doofenshmirtz: I'm a good guy now! I believe you've met my partner?
Dr. Diminutive: (gasps) Perry the Platypus? Stay away from me!
(Perry chases Dr. Diminutive, but he disappears when he leaps on him)
Dr. Diminutive: (laughing) Fools! That was only my hologram!
Doofenshmirtz: Don't worry. I've got your back, partner.
Dr Diminutive: (traps Doofenshmirtz and Perry) I trapped you in a particle bubble from my new Photon 2000 Particle Bubble-erator!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, brother! 2000 was so 4,000 days ago!
Dr. Diminutive: Perhaps you'd like to join your friend, Newton the Gnu in his decidedly ordinary acrylic prison. Can you believe it? I was having him over for a friendly dinner, when I read your blog telling me that Newton the Gnu is really Agent Silent G!
(Perry glares at Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: I can't help it! I blog what I see!
(Switches back to the store where Candace dropped the babies off)
Candace: I've got some baby stuff!
(Baby Phineas and Ferb rides away on their modified baby stroller)
Candace: Oh, my gosh! Get back here!
(alarm ringing)
Robber: (coming out of store with bags of money) Suckers! (chuckles) Oh, my bike. (the police pull up) Oh, good, the cops are here! I can report this vandalism to the...
Police: (pulls out a gun) Put your hands up! 
Robber: (he does so) Oh, that's right.
(Switches to a baby emporium, where Candace finds baby Phineas and Ferb)
Candace: Phineas and Ferb, get back here!
(Song: Here's Why It is Great to Be a Baby)
♪ I can crawl around on the ground ♪
♪ I'm allowed to make obnoxious sounds ♪
♪ I can be asleep both night or day ♪
♪ I ain't got much hair to brush ♪
♪ And there ain't no need for me to flush ♪
♪ And that is why you'll always hear me say ♪
♪ Man, it sure is great to be a baby ♪
♪ You can sit all day and suck your thumb ♪
♪ I can chew my brother's toes ♪
♪ And play with the stuff inside my nose ♪
♪ And the pans in the kitchen cupboard make great drums ♪
(Musical Interlude)
♪ Get strolled, carried, burped and cuddled ♪
♪ Wiped, powdered, diapered, swaddled ♪
♪ Hugged, tickled, dried, tossed ♪
♪ Ported, dressed, kissed, washed ♪
♪ Swung, spoiled, peek-a-boo! ♪
♪ Pampered, nibbled, coochee-coo! ♪
♪ Snuggled, cuddled, rocked and fed ♪
♪ Sung to, nursed and put to bed ♪
Phineas/Ferb: (cooing)
Candace: Okay, playtime's over. We've got a party to get to.
(Switches to the exterior of Dr. Diminutive's building)
Dr. Diminutive: Due to your request, Heinz, I've decide to let you all go. From 40 stories up.
Doofenshmirtz: Just for the record, that's not exactly what I meant.
Dr. Diminutive: Yeah, I know. (drops them off of building)
Doofenshmirtz: (as he and Agents P & Silent G fall) What do you guys think? How am I doing so far?
(Perry uses his grappling hook to take the Pumanic Bubbletron)
Dr. Diminutive: Hey, give it back!
(Perry uses the Pumanic Bubbletron to make a bubble and traps Dr. Diminutive)
Dr. Diminutive: Uh-oh. Oh, poop.
(Perry makes another bubble and he, Doofenshmirtz, and Agent Silent G bounce on it, breaking their fall)
Doofenshmirtz: Hang on, boys! I'm gonna bounce us back to headquarters! Yee-haw!
(Switches to Major Monogram's office)
Carl: Sorry about your car, sir. (presents a hubcap to Major Monogram) This is all I could find. (gasps)
Major Monogram: Oh, this is just not working out!
(crashing)
(Switches to Dexter's party)
Candace: Hey, Mom! I've found a couple of babies that you need to see!
Ginger/Adyson: Babies? Oh, let me help! We'll take good care of them!
Candace: Uh, what are you guys doing here?
Isabella: We're helping Mom's aunt's sister's landlord son.
Linda: Hi, Candace.
Candace: Mom, I need to show you something.
(Switches to Major Monogram's temporary cubicle)
Major Monogram: It's humiliating! I'm stuck in this crummy, little cubicle while my office gets repaired! Anyway, Agent P, due to your quick action and decisive action, you were able to rescue Agent Silent G. Doofenshmirtz, you're fired.
Doofenshmirtz: Is it because I blew up your car?
Major Monogram: No, it's because I have a list of complaints from Human Resources.
Doofenshmirtz: So, it was the duck! (Looks at the duck. The dog and crocodile do the same)
(The duck agent backs away in his chair)
Major Monogram: Let's face it. You've done more damage inside the Agency than you ever did outside.
Doofenshmirtz: So, what you're saying is that I'm good at being evil after all! (calls Norm) Norm, we're back in business! Dust off the inators! (hangs up) Later, chumps!
(Switches to D.E.I.)
Norm: I'll start with this one!
(Another ray shoots out of the Babe-inator)
(Switches to Dexter's party)
Candace: Mom, these aren't babies that look like Phineas and Ferb. This is Phineas and Ferb.
(The Babe-inator's ray hits Isabella, Linda and Katie, which turns them into babies. The same is done with the remaining Fireside Girls, excluding Holly and Adyson. All of the babies, excluding Phineas and Ferb, then start crying.)
Candace: (talking loudly) Okay, I get it. Lesson learned. Toddlers aren't easy! The irony is not lost in me! Little help here? Ugh, this had better wear off before the next episode.

End Credits
(Song: Here's Why It is Great to Be a Baby)
(Musical interlude)
♪ Get strolled, carried, burped and cuddled ♪
♪ Wiped, powdered, diapered, swaddled ♪
♪ Hugged, tickled, dried, tossed ♪
♪ Ported, dressed, kissed, washed ♪
♪ Swung, spoiled, peek-a-boo! ♪
♪ Pampered, nibbled, coochee-coo! ♪
♪ Snuggled, cuddled, rocked and fed ♪
♪ Sung to, nursed and put to bed ♪



(Scene opens up with Perry sitting outside a tree. He is carried up by an invention by Phineas and Ferb. It is revealed that Phineas, Ferb, and their friends are sitting inside the leaves of the tree.)
Phineas: Boy, it seems like summer flies by so fast sometimes.
Isabella: Yeah, before we know it, it'll be autumn.
Baljeet: Yes! Back to school, baby! ...Oh, you meant that like a bad thing.
Phineas: There are a lot of great things about the fall. Jumping in giant leaf piles. Perfect example.
Isabella: Yeah, the leaves turn such pretty colors in the fall. I love it.
Buford: Gourds. Gourds are great ...What? I like gourds.
Phineas: I know what we should do today. Remember how we made "S'Winter"? Let's make "S'Fall"! Hey, where's "S'Perry"?

(Scene shifts to the O.W.C.A Lair)
Major Monogram: Carl.
Carl: Yes?
Major Monogram: Did I ever tell you you're like the son that I never had?
Carl: Really, sir!?
Major Monogram: Yes. It's because you're so unlike the son that I did have! And here he is. Come on over here, Monty!
Monty: Dad, come on. You know it's embarrassing when you brag about me by belittling others.
Major Monogram: Right, sorry. Agent P, uh, you remember my son?
Monty: Yeah, good to see you, Agent P.
(Perry smiles and waves to Monty)
Major Monogram: Monty here just graduated from HSWACA! The High School Without A Cool Acronym.
Monty: Yes. I hope to follow in my father's footsteps and join you in the battle against evil.
Major Monogram: You know, son, I've been meaning to tell you something.
Monty: Sure, Dad, shoot.
Major Monogram: Well, as you know, my father was in the agency, and what you don't know is that he pressured me into following in his footsteps. But I always wanted to be an acrobat!
Monty: So that explains...
Major Monogram: Yes, the constant acrobatic lessons you've been given since birth. You, Monty Monogram, don't have to give up my dream of becoming an acrobat. You can be anything you want to be.
Monty: But, Dad, I want to fight evil.
Major Monogram: What? After all that money we spent on acrobat training? (Perry gains an awkward expression)
Monty: I never asked for that!
Carl: Sir, I'll become an acrobat if it'll make you proud of me!
Major Monogram: Really? Hmm. (Takes Carl off for the acrobatic training but comes back to the screen) Oh, yeah, Agent P, uh, stop Doof. (Perry glares at him)

(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
Vanessa: A video game is more important than me? That's it! I'm done! We are so over, Johnny!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, hello, Vanessa! Let me introduce Rodrigo to you. He's starting evil science school in the fall and I'm mentoring him. I'm in mid-ment.
Rodrigo: Call me Rod.
Vanessa: Is that what your friends call you?
Rodrigo: No one calls me that. It's just that you seem rather unique.
Doofenshmirtz: So, what's wrong, Vanessa? You seem upset.
Vanessa: Nothing. It's just... Johnny, he's such a boy. I'm sick of it. No ambition, no depth...
Doofenshmirtz: You always go for the wrong type of guy, these bad-boy types.
Vanessa: Dad, perhaps you haven't noticed but you're evil.
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, there's good evil and then there's bad evil. Am I right, Rodrigo?
Rodrigo: Huh? Exactly.
(Rodrigo does a "crazy face", causing Vanessa to smile.)

(Back at the backyard)
Baljeet: So, how do we get all the leaves down, anyway?
Buford: Way ahead of you. Grab an end. (Hands Baljeet a saw)
Isabella: Buford! You can't! That's Phineas's tree. That's the tree!
Buford: Sentimentality or leaves. You can't have both.
Phineas: Au contraire. If you would kindly direct your attention to Ferb, who is modeling this "s'fall" season's fashion in rapid leaf production accelerators.
(Ferb turns the machine's handle, causing several leaves to grow and fall to the ground. Phineas, Isabella, Buford and Baljeet applaud.)
Phineas: Ooh-la-la, Monsieur Fletcher.
(Ferb turns the handle many more times, causing hundreds of leaves to grow.)
(Inside the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Candace: Anyway, Stacy, so I decided that from now on, I'm going to stop always interrupting my life with all these stu... (gasps as she sees the leaves blocking the door) Stacy, I gotta call you back. Oh I see. So they think they can stop me from seeing whatever giant project they're working on today by plastering leaves all over the door, huh? Well, it's not gonna work! A-ha! ...Um, they've built a big wall of leaves to block the door! Well, I'll just dig in here and, uh...
(Song: S'Fall (instrumental))
(The camera goes outside to show that Ferb built a leaf pile that's three times as large as their house.)
Phineas: Now that's a leaf pile.

(Back at Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, Doofenshmirtz pointing a pointer at a chalkboard)
Doofenshmirtz: Backstory! Backstory! Backstory! (Breaks his pointer.) The backstory is what drives an evil scientist. It is the "Why does he do what he does?" of the "What does he do?" (Accidentally throws a broken half of the pointing rod, causing a cat to yowl.) My point is, at its best, evil science is like undergoing deep Freudian analysis with a theremin constantly playing in the background.
Vanessa: Hey, guys, it's such a beautiful day. I thought maybe we could put the top down?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, okay.
Vanessa: See, you are the best...
Doofenshmirtz: No tattoo.
Vanessa: Shoot.
(Doofenshmirtz pushes a button that opens the building's top. Perry comes in using a para-glider.)
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus! Just in time...To be trapped!
(Perry gets trapped by a boot that looks like one of Vanessa's boots.)
Doofenshmirtz: Now that's what I call getting the boot!
Rodrigo: Wow! A real agent!
Doofenshmirtz: See, now that's a trap! I even made it based on my own daughter's fashion style. Vampire-pilgrim-scuba-diver.
Vanessa: What? Is that what you think I look lik... Wait, you made this? What size is it?
Rodrigo: Excuse me the interrupting, Dr. Doofenshmirtz, but he can get out of there fairly easy, no?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, duh, the trap only needs to hold him for just enough time for you to get through your evil scheme monologue. At that point, your nemesis escapes and the race is on! Who will win, good or evil? No one can say, except, of course, if you go by recent statistics which, it's pretty much good who wins every single time. No matter what. But, hey, if it was easy, everyone would take over the Tri-State Area, right? Every single person would be in charge and we'd be forced to, I don't know, decide the rules together by voting or something.
Rodrigo: I see. It's just that I took a few advanced trap classes in school and I was hoping to show you, the master, a few of my little ideas in the hopes that you could critique them.
Doofenshmirtz: Hmm, all right, knock yourself out.
(Rodrigo gets his bag to make a trap.)
Rodrigo: Don't worry, little platypus agent. When I'm through here, you'll no longer have to battle this inept loser anymore. Because, you see, I plan to get rid of both of you.

(Back at the Flynn-Fletcher household, Phineas, Ferb and his friends are in a hot air balloon.)
Phineas: Okay, now we've determined that the sweet spot for entering the pile is right here, at the top.
Buford: Oh, and I made gourd helmets, by the way. (Buford starts giving the gourd helmets to his friends.) Here. Here. No, wait, Baljeet, this is yours. Phineas. I like to think each individual's gourd helmet captures their unique essence in some way, you know, in gourd.
Isabella: Exactly how does this capture my essence?
Buford: Right, like that's not obvious.
Phineas: Yeah, come on. Stop kidding around, Isabella. Oh I think we're over the drop zone. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to "s'fall"!
(The friends jump from the hot air balloon and into the leaf pile. The leaf pile is revealed to contain some various fun activities that the friends go to.)
(Song: S'Fall)
♪ All the trees are ready for shakin', ♪
♪ Grab a rake if you're into rakin'. ♪
♪ Come along, it's ours for the takin' ♪
♪ There's a brand new season we're makin'. ♪
♪ All the leaves are gold and red ♪
♪ And the sun's still on our head. ♪
♪ Oh, we can have it all when ♪
♪ Summer turns to S'Fall. ♪
(The camera cuts back to the exterior of the leaf pile, revealing that Candace dug to the other side of the leaf pile.)
Candace: Huh? What are they up to today? Do they really think they can escape Mom's wrath by hiding in this fun, massive, glorious, autumnal leaf pile? Well, not if I can help it!

(Scene cuts back to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, shortly after Rodrigo finished Perry's trap.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hmm, how does it feel, Perry the Platypus?
(Perry chatters)
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, I thought so.
Rodrigo: Wait, you can understand him?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, heck no, I usually just pretend he's talking about recent movies I've seen.
Vanessa: (Trying on Doofenshmirtz's boot trap) So, uh, you didn't by any chance make a left-boot trap, did you?
Doofenshmirtz: (scoffs) A left-boot trap? Whoever heard of such a thing?
(Perry uses the trap to push a button on his wrist communicator to alert the O.W.C.A. that he is in danger. The camera cuts back to the O.W.C.A. Monty is standing in front of a screen which is alerting the O.W.C.A.)
Monty: Uh, Dad? This looks pretty serious.
(Major Monogram and Carl doesn't notice the alarm as they're too focused on doing acrobatics.)
Major Monogram: Nonsense. The Zoondilini under swing is child's play.
Carl: Uh, should both my shoulders be dislocated from their sockets, sir?
(Monty takes matters into his own hands and leaves the O.W.C.A Headquarters.)

(The camera cuts back to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Using my intimate knowledge of the Tri-State Area, I have installed, in two precise locations, these!
(The camera cuts to Doofenshmirtz's inator, which appears in two locations, one in a warehouse and one in a random location.)
Random person: (at a vendor) Yay! Falafel!
(The vendor opens his taco stand, only to see a part of Doofenshmirtz's inator appear from his stand.)
(Camera goes back to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated.)
Vanessa: Cool.
Doofenshmirtz: I know, huh? These massive propellers will physically dislodge the entire Tri-State Area from the Earth and raise it up into the sky where I will then pilot it around and you know, run some errands or something, and refuse to return it, until they make me their leader. (Doofenshmirtz activates the propellers, dislodging the Tri-State Area from the Earth.) Hmm. Well, that went well.
Rodrigo: Extremely well. (He pushes a button that activates a hidden trap that ties Doofenshmirtz's legs together.)
Doofenshmirtz: Is this like a robot hug for a job well done?
Rodrigo: No. It's a trap! What does that even mean, a robot hug for a job well... Who would even consider that a possibility!? I'm taking over your evil scheme, you fool! (He pushes a button that pulls Doofenshmirtz away from the controls.)
Doofenshmirtz: (screams)
Vanessa: Dad, look out! Wha... (She tries to move but she's wearing Perry's boot trap, which is attached to the floor.) Oh, you have got to be kidding me.
Rodrigo: (Explains his plan using the blackboard that Doofenshmirtz used earlier.) You see, Dr. Doofenshmirtz, I'm going to manipulate your propellers at precise angles and literally tear the Tri-State Area apart!
Doofenshmirtz: But, hey, dummy, if you destroy the Tri-State Area, what exactly will you have left to take over? Hmm?
Rodrigo: The world.
Doofenshmirtz: (gasps) Take over the world? Tha..That's crazy! That's almost left-boot-trap crazy!
Vanessa: Oh, would you get off that? Making matching boots is normal. You with the one boot, that's what's crazy.
Rodrigo: Join me, Vanessa, and together we will take over the world. I'll let you get a tattoo. I think boots should come in pairs, like people.
Vanessa: Join you? I don't work for him. That's my father, you dweeb.
Rodrigo: Well, yeah, I just thought we had a moment.
Vanessa: (scoffs) A moment?
(Perry chatters)
Vanessa: Yeah, I know. What a dip, right?
Rodrigo: No matter. Now, time to say goodbye to your beloved Tri-State Area!
(He manipulates the propellers near a 45-degree angle. He laughs maniacally. Monty comes in using a jet-pack and tackles Rodrigo. The two fight, with Monty using his acrobatic skills to fight Rodrigo. Perry activates a camera in his wrist communicator to show Major Monogram what Monty is doing. The camera cuts back to the O.W.C.A. Headquarters.)
Major Monogram: Huh? Great googly moogly! Combining fighting evil with acrobatics? Of course! It was right in front of my face the whole time. That's my boy!
(The camera cuts back to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, showing Vanessa free Perry from his trap.)

(Meanwhile, at the leaf pile, Phineas, Ferb and his friends are eating candy apples. Candace accidentally rides a slide inside the leaf pile.)
Candace: (screaming)
Buford: Gourd helmet. (Places a gourd helmet on Candace as she slides by.)
(Candace crashes in front of Phineas, Ferb and his friends.)
Candace: A-ha! I got you now! Ooooh, you are so busted! I can see that you're eating... candy apples. Not something I can bust you for.
Phineas: You want one, Candace?

(Camera cuts back to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, how about this one? (He pushes a button which frees himself.) Good. Okay, well, at least I can still go on with my plan. (He manipulates the propellers in a vertical position. He raises the Tri-State Area once again.) I should go pick up my dry cleaning before it gets too...
(Perry tackles Doofenshmirtz, in the process, dropping the Tri-State Area back to Earth.)

(Outside the Flynn-Fletcher household, the impact of the drop spreads the leaves at different places outside the house.)
Linda: (from inside) Kids, I'm home!
Candace: Mom! (Runs to her) Mom! The boys are up to something huge! I just know it! But they've hidden it within a massive pile of leaves in the backyard. Come help me sort through them for a few hours to find it! (Pulls her out)
Linda: (Sarcastically) Wow. Sounds great.
(The impact of the fight at Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated puts the propellers in a horizontal position, blowing the leaves at the backyard away, just before Candace and Linda come to the backyard.)
Linda: No leaves? No nothing?
Candace: No leaves, no nothing.
Linda: (at the boys and their friends) Do you guys already have snacks?
Phineas: We do, thanks!
Linda: (With disdain) My work here is done. (Straightens Candace's gourd helmet and leaves) Nice gourd helmets, though.
Ferb: Well, who's up for "sprummer"?

(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, Monty ties Rodrigo to a chair.)
Rodrigo: (grunts)
Monty: Okay, you got it from here, Agent P.
(Perry traps Doofenshmirtz and salutes Monty.)
Rodrigo: But, Vanessa, I thought you liked bad boys?
Vanessa: Eh, I'm over it. I think it's time I tried a... (She watches Monty leave using a jet-pack. Monty looks at her and smiles before leaving.) A good guy.
(Perry goes to Vanessa's side. He watches Vanessa stare at Monty as he leaves. Perry realizes what she's thinking and gives a shocked expression at the camera.)

End credits
(Song: S'Fall)
♪ All the trees are ready for shakin', ♪
♪ Grab a rake if you're into rakin'. ♪
♪ Come along, it's ours for the takin' ♪
♪ There's a brand new season we're makin'. ♪
♪ All the leaves are gold and red ♪
♪ And the sun's still on our head. ♪
♪ Oh, we can have it all when ♪
♪ Summer turns to S'Fall. ♪



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house. Linda and Candace are then seen walking towards the front door)
Linda: Alright, Candace, I'm headed out to the zoo to do my volunteer work.
Candace: Which means I'm in charge.
Linda: Well, not really, 'cause Dad's here. Right, honey?
(Cut to Lawrence, Phineas and Ferb in the living room watching television.)
Lawrence: That's right, dear.
Announcer: And now back to Horse in a Bookcase.
(Song: "Horse in a Bookcase")
♪ It's a horse in a bookcase... ♪
♪ It's a horse in a bookcase... ♪
♪ Little horse in a bookcase... ♪
♪ It's a horse... ♪
(The horse winnies.)
(Cut back to Candace and Linda.)
Linda: You're in charge.
Candace: (smiling and opening the door for her mother) Bye, Mom! Have fun at the zoo!
(Irving appears behind the door.)
Irving: Hello, Candace. Are Phineas and Ferb here?
Candace: Yes. (closes door. A knock is heard. She opens it and Irving reappears) Yes?
Irving: Can I see them?
Candace: Probably not from there. (Closes the door again. Another knock is heard. She opens it.)
Irving: I would like to visit with my friends Phineas and Ferb. Could I please come in?
Candace: Well, why didn't you say so?
Irving: (walks in with a tablet device in his hand) I am sure you would like to know what it is I am holding in my hands.
Candace: Nope.
Irving: Well, if you insist. Behold, the Ultimate Phineas and Ferb Digital Scrapbook! UPAFDS for short. (Pronounced as "Up-af-ds")
Candace: Up-a-feds?
Irving: UPAFDS!
Candace: Whatevs. (exits)
Irving: It's a digital compilation of Phineas and Ferb's creations!
Candace: (skidding back in) Phineas and Ferb's creations?
Irving: Yeah, see? (He flips through the device, which includes photos of the rollercoaster, Candace's head on Mt. Rushmore, the chariot race, the treehouse robots, and the rocketship to space) It's everything they've done over the summer.
Candace: It's perfect! Could I just borrow that for a—
Irving: Foo-foo-foo-foo-foo! The UPAFDS does not leave my person!
Phineas: Hey, Irving! Is that the UPAFDS?
Irving: Why, yes. Yes, it is.
Phineas: Cool! Let's see!
Gordon Gutsofanemu: (on TV) We interrupt Horse in a Bookcase to bring you this breaking news bulletin. Little Crikey the Crocodile has gone missing. Kids everywhere remember little Crikey the Crocodile from his popular show, Little Crikey the Crocodile.
Hobo Dan: I dunno, I just thought it would be nice for Crikey to take a ride, get some fresh air. Uh, but a couple of speed bumps later, badda-bing, badda-boom, no Crikey! I just hope he's okay.
Gordon Gutsofanemu: Search parties are looking in the swamp areas in Danville, but nobody has seen any sign of him.
Phineas: They're wasting their time in that swampy marsh. Everyone knows crocodiles head for the sewers. That's where we need to look. Tiny Crikey needs our help. Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
Irving: Ferb, I know what I'm gonna do today, too!
Candace: Yes, Ferb, I know what I'm gonna take today—I mean borrow—I mean—
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?
(Cut to Perry upstairs. He puts on his fedora. He takes down the bathroom door and opens it on the floor revealing a stairway, which he goes down. Cut to Agent P's lair. Agent P turns on the computer. However, instead of Major Monogram, a certain Golden Globe nominated actor appears on screen.)
Ray Liotta: Good morning, Agent P. I know what you're thinking: "Aren't you Hollywood's Ray Liotta?" The answer is yes. Yes, I am. I'm sitting in for my good friend, Major Monogram, while he's getting some manscaping done. I mean, mustaches like that, they don't just happen. Besides, I owe him big for that favor he did for me at...the Academy.
Young Monogram's Voice: Hey, uh, Ray, I...I just did a favor for you.
Young Liotta's Voice: Thanks, Francis. I owe you big.
Ray Liotta: Anyway, our web monitors tell us that Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been frequenting websites and blogs dedicated to chickens and chicken-related jokes. We don't know what that means, but it's gotta be something fowl. We need you to get out there and take him down a peg! (Perry salutes) Good luck, Agent P! (Perry leaves and Liotta laughs) That felt great, Carl! Fighting evil like that, I was like zing, wow, yeah! Why did I ever drop out of the Academy to become a big Hollywood star when I'm needed here?
Carl: (offscreen) Well, to be fair, sir, you do get paid more than we do.
Ray Liotta: Yes. Yes, I do.
(Cut to the sewers. Phineas, Ferb, Candace and Irving are on a boat powered by a giant fan.)
Candace: So tell me exactly how you plan to catch this crocodile.
Phineas: Simple. We'll use the Crocolocator. See that blip straight ahead of us? That's Crikey.
Candace: What's that other dot?
Phineas: Oh. Well, apparently, there's buried treasure down here. Eh, maybe some other day.
Irving: This is so exciting!
Candace: So, Irving, (taking the UPAFDS) maybe I should keep this safe while we—
Irving: (swiping it back) Foo-foo-foo-foo! I am sorry, Candace, as much as I have great reverence for you, the UPAFDS does not leave my person...EVAH!
Candace: Oooh, all I wanna do is show it to Mom!
Irving: Oh! Well, sure. As soon as we're done with the mission, we can show her to your mother.
Candace: Really? I can just show her to—Wait a minute, did you just call it a "her"?
Irving: Yeah, "her", see? (falsetto) "Hi, Candace, I'm the UPAFDS! And I'm a girl!"
(Pause as Candace blinks.)
Candace: Anyway, as soon as we're done finding this little crocodile, it's straight to Mom with the evidence! (to her brothers) Come on! Move it move it move it!
Phineas: That's the spirit, sis!
Candace: You guys are going down, down, DOOOOOOWWWWWWWWWNNNNNN!!!!!!
(The boat goes down a waterfall.)
(Cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
(Cut to inside. The intercom buzzes. Doofenshmirtz walks up to push it.)
Doofenshmirtz: Who is it? (Perry chatters on the intercom) Oh, Perry the Platypus, come on up. (He pushes the door button and giggles to himself and sneaks behind a chair. He peers from behind to laugh again. Perry opens the door and runs in. Doofenshmirtz jumps from behind the chair with a remote.) Aha! (He pushes the button and a net falls down on him.) Okay, I chalk that up to poor planning...again. (gives Perry a newspaper) Anyhow, look at this. Can you believe it? My goody two-shoes brother is getting an award for being the best Danville mayor ever for the second year in a row! And he's only been mayor for one year! I am going to make sure he never gets that award! Uh, you see, people used to laugh at me all the time. I know it's hard to believe now, but it's true. They would laugh at me. And would they laugh at my brother? No! Never! Of course not! Well, things are about to change. Thanks to my brand new Chicken-Replace-inator!
(Cut to an inator that looks like a chicken.)
♪ Buck buck BAWWWWWWK! ♪
(Perry gives him a look)
Doofenshmirtz: This beautiful device replaces anything it hits with a chicken! How funny will that be? Roger gets handed the award, and suddenly, it's a chicken! Ha ha! And not just chicken, but the nearest chicken! Which, when you think about it, saves a lot of energy. I mean, why pull some chicken from halfway around the world when, uh, there might be one available right around the cornerrrrrrruh? (takes off the net and throws it onto Perry) Ah, this is much better. Anyway, like I was saying, all I have to do is point this at Roger just as they're handing him his award, and zap! He goes from prestigious mayor with a major award to just some guy holding a chicken. I mean, have you ever seen anyone not laugh at a chicken? Chicken laugh! Chicken laugh! It's obligatory.
(Cut back to the sewers.)
Phineas: The Crocolocator says he should be right here. Maybe there's some other way to track him.
Candace: Phineas, puh-leez. I'm all the equipment you'll ever need. I mean, hello, let us not forget that I wrestled a ferocious alligator. (Unbeknownst to her, a giant crocodile appears behind her.) A scrappy little crocodile is nothing for a pro like me. (to the crocodile behind her) I'n' that right? (Her eyes pop in sudden realization)
Ferb: Oh. Looks like Little Crikey grew up.
(Candace runs and screams.)
Phineas: She must be getting a bigger net.
(Candace starts the boat and screams.)
Irving: We're gonna need another boat.
Phineas: (on his walkie-talkie) Isabella, execute Plan B!
(Cut to Isabella, Holly and Gretchen on jet skis in the sewer.)
Isabella: Roger that, Phineas! We're on our way! Okay, girls, let's light 'em up!
(Song: "Subterranean Crocodile Apprehension Expedition")
♪ It's a subterranean crocodile apprehension expedition. ♪
♪ If you've never apprehend a croc under ground, ♪
♪ Then you don't know what you're missing. ♪
♪ Going through the sewers in a big fanboat, ♪
♪ Gonna grab a gator and that's all she wrote. ♪
♪ Get him in a net, and then we're gonna gloat for a while... ♪
♪ Cause he's a big reptile. ♪
Lord, look at the size of that gator! Ha-ha!
♪ Cause he's a prehistoric lizard with a streak of mean, ♪
♪ Eyes so black and scales so green. ♪
♪ More sharp teeth than you've ever seen in his smile... ♪
♪ Yeah, he's a big reptile. ♪
Yeah, that's one mean gator.
Phineas: Nice short cut, we're right behind her. Hey, what happened to Buford and Baljeet?
(Seeing Buford and Baljeet with a hotdog vendor)
Baljeet: Come on! She is getting away!
Buford: Gimme a second. If I eat nine, the tenth one is free!
♪ It's a subterranean crocodile apprehension expedition. ♪
♪ Subterranean crocodile apprehension expedition. ♪
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz looking through binoculars at the ceremony)
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, yes, there he is. The second he takes that award, bazing! There it is. It's chicken time, baby! (Perry throws the net back onto Doofenshmirtz) The net? Again? (takes it off) Really? You know somethin'... What are you doin'? (Perry hits the inator with a wrench and breaks the pedestal) Careful with that! (Doofenshmirtz catches the inator) Perry the Platypus, you are gonna get such a chickening! (He zaps the wrench which is replaced by a chicken.) Ah! (He zaps something down below. Cut to a posh old lady with a dog. The dog gets replaced by a chicken. The lady laughs. Doofenshmirtz zaps it again. It zaps a car, which gets replaced by a giant chicken. The man in the car laughs. A crossing guard is then replaced by a chicken. Two boys crossing laugh.) I hope you're noting this, Perry the Platypus! Chicken laugh! Chicken laugh! See?! I told ya!
(Cut back to the crocodile chase. Candace is still screaming with Crikey behind her.)
Phineas: Candace, aim your boat for the middle tube!
(Candace continues screaming as the boat flies out of the tube followed by the others over Danville Nature Preserve. They skid to a stop.)
Phineas: Candace, you did it!
(The boat, with Candace and Crikey, is sitting on a fence. The boat gets zapped and replaced by a chicken, which Candace lands on.)

(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, come out, come out, wherever you are. You've got an appointment with the nearest chicken. I've got something that I need to— (He gets startled as he sees Perry standing in front of him) Now, prepare to be turned into a— (Perry takes out a rubber chicken) Huh, what is that? A rubber chicken? (Perry puts the rubber chicken into the inator's beak) What are you gonna do with... Actually, that's kinda funny. No matter! Prepare to meet your chicken! (He activates the inator, which starts to inflate and overheat) What the heck's wrong with this? Oh boy.
(Perry escapes on his parachute)
♪ Agent P! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: No, no!! (Kaboom! We hear massive clucking inside)
(Cut to the Farmer's Wife's Nearest Chicken Farm. The farmer is painting over the sign since the chicken farm is now full of Doof's furniture. His wife comes in with some groceries.)
Farmer's Wife: I don't believe it! I go to the store for fifteen minutes and when I get back, I find that you've turned our Nearest Chicken Farm into a swap meet!
Farmer: And what did you buy, dear?
Farmer's Wife: Frozen lasagna. They were on special two for one, so I bought two, I figured we could have one tonight and then we could have the other one when your sister and her husband...Ah d-don't change the subject!
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz who is now in a room full of chickens)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, look, it's chickens! It's (groans) I guess chickens aren't as funny as I thought.
(Cut back to the nature preserve.)
Phineas: Wow, Candace, that was fantastic! The way you handled the boat and brought Crikey to safety! You are one pretty awesome big sis!
(The chicken Candace is sitting on clucks as Linda approaches them.)
Linda: Hi, kids! Hey! How did Crikey get here? They must've brought him in while I was at lunch. Candace, why are you sitting on a chicken?
Candace: (runs out) Wait right here, Mom! I've got evidence!
(The chicken walks away.)
Linda: But why was she sitting on a chicken?
Phineas: I don't know, Mom. (chuckles) It's actually kinda funny.
Linda: Yes. Yes, it is.
Candace: (running up to Irving and grabbing the UPAFDS) Hehehehehehe... Give me that nerd box! I'm tired of being nice!
Irving: No way! I told you, the UPAFDS does not leave my person eveeer!!!
(The UPAFDS slips out of their hands and Crikey swallows it.)
Candace and Irving: Oh no!
Candace: You ate my evidence, you overgrown lizard!
(Perry is heard chattering.)
Phineas: There you are, Perry!
Candace: I just can't believe it's gone!
Irving: Aw, don't be blue. All we've gotta do is wait a couple of hours—
Candace: Ew, disgusting!
Irving: What? My brother will be here with my backup. What were you think— (realizes) Oh, that is disgusting!

End Credits
(Song: "Subterranean Crocodile Apprehension Expedition")
♪ It's a subterranean crocodile apprehension expedition. ♪
♪ If you've never apprehend a croc under ground, ♪
♪ Then you don't know what you're missing. ♪
♪ Going through the sewers in a big fanboat, ♪
♪ Gonna grab a gator and that's all she wrote. ♪
♪ Get him in a net, and then we're gonna gloat for a while... ♪
♪ Cause he's a big reptile. ♪



(Scene opens up showing The Flynn-Fletcher house. The camera switches to Candace)
Candace's Brain: Has it come to this? (looks closer) Just standing out in the yard, (Camera zooms out, showing Phineas and Ferb sitting by the tree) Staring at your brothers, waiting? (Zoom into Phineas and Ferb) They're gonna do something bustable, I know it.
(Ferb slouches. Candace's cell phone rings)
Candace's Brain: (Gasps) It's Jeremy!
Candace: (Flips the phone open) I know who it is! (Speaks into the phone) Hi!
Jeremy: Hey! Wanna come over today?
Candace: Uh, yeah, just checking out the situation around here. (At Phineas, covering the phone) Uh, Phineas, do you know what you're gonna do today?
Phineas: No.
Candace: No jetpacks? No volleyball? No "Where's Perry"?
Phineas: Nope, nothing yet.
Candace: (At phone) Yeah, I think I'm free. I'll be right over.
Jeremy: Cool! See ya in a bit! (Hangs up)
(Candace walks out and closes the gate)
Phineas: (Off-screen) Hey Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! (Close up of Candace, who is wide-eyed) Let's build jetpacks...
Candace: Oh! (Bends down)
Phineas: (Off-screen) ...And play Volleyball!
Candace: Ohh!! (Drops to her knees and drops her phone. She calls Jeremy) Uh, Jeremy, why don't you come over here?
Phineas: Hey Candace, you seen Perry?
Candace: Oh!

(Back in the living room, Perry walks to the recliner in pet mode. He puts on his fedora, sits on the recliner and pulls the lever. Perry falls through the recliner and lands in his lair. On the monitor, Major Monogram is seen, looking tired)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P, I want to apologize for my appearance. You see, I was up all night monitoring Doofenshmirtz. It seems that-- zzzzzzzzzzzz.... Yeah, I'll have cake.
Carl: (Off-screen) Sir?
Major Monogram: (Wakes up) --Up all night, uh, building inators. See what he's-- zzzzzzzzzz....
Carl: (Off-screen) I think you can go, Agent P.
♪ Agent P! ♪

(Switch to the kitchen window. The gang is seen putting on jetpacks)
Candace's Brain: Ah yes, now that's bustable behavior. You should tell Mom.
Candace: (whispering) Stop telling me what to do. (At Mom) Mom! 

(Cut to the living room. Linda is seen reading a book)
Candace: Mom, Jeremy's on his way over here right now. I've got like 5-10 minutes to get the whole "Busting-Phineas-and-Ferb" thing over so I can relax and we can enjoy our Saturday.
Linda (While her eyes are on the book) Yeah, chapter almost done. (Looks at Candace) Front yard or backyard?
Candace: Back. Kitchen door.
Linda: Done and done.
(Switch to the backyard. Candace peeks out the door, then gasps. Cut to Jeremy and the gang; Buford, Isabella and Baljeet are carrying a net over their heads while the boys turn on their jetpacks)
Jeremy: (Wearing a jetpack and has a volleyball in his hand) Hey, Candace! Jetpack Volleyball? This is a great idea! You're gonna join us, right?
Candace: Uh, yeah! I'll be up in just a second. I just got something I gotta do. (Closes door)
Linda: I'm ready for our little charade.
Candace's Brain: (while Candace blocks the door) Mom can't see this! We don't want to get Jeremy in trouble! You've got to keep Mom inside!
Candace: (runs off) Oh, Mom! Don't be so silly! You can't go out there until we've uh, uh... (Stammers, pushes Mom to the dishwasher) Unloaded the dishwasher, right! (Chuckles) Right?
Linda: But they're not dry yet.
Candace: Oh they'll dry, Mom. (Grasps her shoulder) Things dry.
Linda: Ooh-kee.
(Cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (On a cell phone) You really think I need aluminum siding? (Perry crashes through the roof and lands on one knee with a hand to the ground.) Oh, oops, gotta go, I got a guest. (hangs up, turns around and claps) Well, Perry the Platypus. Oh, hey, nice landing pose. See, that would kill my knees. (Pushes a remote) Haha!! You're trapped! (Two floorboards come out and trap him.) Let's talk about what you've been up to, Perry the Platypus. You've been sneaking into my lair secretly and building inators in the middle of the night! (Perry looks confused) Oh, don't act all so innocent. Every morning when I wake up, there's a new inator. Look! See? Three of 'em! (Cut to the inators. Cut back to Perry, who shrugs.) Re-Really, you didn't do it? If it wasn't you, then who was it? I mean, you and I are the only ones who are ever here, which is sad in and of itself. B-But I'm not building them in my sleep! (gasps) Wait, that's it! I'm sleep-inventing! That's fabulous!
(Song: I'm Unconsciously Creating Truly Evil Inators)
(jumping around) ♪ I'm unconsciously creating ♪
♪ Complicated and ♪
♪ Truly evil ♪
♪ In-a-tors! ♪
Ah, look at you. So evil. I wonder what you do. Le-Le-Let's see. (He activates the first inator. It zaps a table, which turns into confetti.) Wait, how is confetti evil? I mean, it makes a mess, sure, but i-is it really evil? (walks up to the second inator) Alright, let's try this one. (He activates it, it zaps a couch, which turns into a giant cupcake.) A big cupcake? (Walks up to the cupcake) Well, maybe it tastes evil. Yes. (He dips his finger into the frosting and puts his finger in his mouth.) Mmm, yes, chocolate!!! The most evil flavor in— (sighs) Who am I kidding? This is delicious. (Walks to the third inator.) Let's see what this one does. Oh, Norm!
Norm: Does someone need their spelling checked?
Doofenshmirtz: No. I just wanted to do this! (He zaps Norm with the inator.)
Norm: How about a hug?
Doofenshmirtz: A huginator?!!
Norm: (walking up to Doofenshmirtz) Unable to resist hugging impulse.
Doofenshmirtz: (walking back against the wall) No! No! Noooooo!!!!
(Norm crashes into the wall taking Doofenshmirtz with him.)
(Cut back to the backyard.)
(Song: Jetpack Volleyball)
♪ Just strap on a jetpack ♪
♪ And string up a net, Jack. ♪
♪ Gonna serve it to you, ♪
♪ So get ready to set back. ♪
♪ Whack, smack, thunder crack, ♪
♪ Try to hit that ball back! ♪
♪ Dig it, bump it, set it, spike it! ♪
♪ That's the way I really like it. ♪
♪ Plenty of fuel so you ain't gonna fall, ♪
♪ We're playing jet, jetpack volleyball. ♪
♪ We're playing jetpack (jetpack!) volleyball, ♪
♪ Jetpack (jetpack!) volleyball. ♪
♪ We're playing jetpack (jetpack!) volleyball, ♪
♪ Jetpack (jetpack, jet!) volleyball. ♪
♪ Don't need to be a giant over six feet tall, ♪
♪ We're playing jet, jetpack volleyball ♪
(Cut back to the kitchen)
Candace: See? I told you they would dry.
(A jetpack whirs in the background.)
Linda: What was that?
Candace: Oh...uh...so, Mom, do you have everything for dinner tonight? Maybe you ought to go to the grocery store.
Linda: Nope. Got everything.
Candace: Oh, it's your bridge day! Better get in the car and go! (pushing her mom out)
Linda: It's tomorrow. Candace, why don't you go outside and hang out with the boys?
Candace: Ha ha ha! Outside! Well, there's no reason to go out there!
Linda: Y'know, I don't hear them. Maybe I'll go check.
Candace: Oh, ow! Ow, ow! (holding her finger)
Linda: Candace, what is it?
Candace: I smashed my finger in the...thing!
Linda: Where? Let me see.
Candace: (holds out her finger and moves it) Here!
Linda: Let...me...see!
Candace: I need a bandage!
Linda: Okay, there's some right—
Candace: No, no! The glow-in-the-dark ones we keep in the emergency kit!
Linda: In the basement?
Candace: Ow ow ow ow ow ow ow ow ow...
Linda: (exits) Okay.
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: W-W-What does this mean? (Cut to Doofenshmirtz in Norm's embracing arms) W-When I'm awake I build evil inators that fail, and when I'm asleep, I build nice inators that work? Ah, what is my subconscious trying to tell me? It's just so exhausting. Ugh, I feel like I've been up all night, which, I, I guess I have, building nice inators, apparently. It's just... (droopily) Yeah, I'm getting sleepy. Ripple dissolve imminent.
(Ripple dissolve to dream sequence where Doofenshmirtz, wearing a fedora and having a beaver tail, is in a strange world full of lawn gnomes, Giant Floating Baby Heads, Balloonys, Goozims and a tombstone shaped like Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, man, this had better be a dream because I don't like where this is going.
(Cut back to the house where Candace is pulling a window shade down.)
Linda: Hon, I looked everywhere. I can't find the bandages.
Candace: That's okay, Mom. It's, um, it's all better.
Linda: Great! Then I'm gonna see if the boys want a—
Candace: No! Uh, uh, let's play chess.
Linda: Chess? Candace, I don't—
Candace: (putting her hands on her mom's shoulders) We never do anything together, okay? (Takes her mom's hand and drags her) Let's play a nice long game of chess.
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz's dream sequence.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, man, everything here in dreamland is so distorted and ugly. Say... (Wide shot to reveal a short green devilish imp that looks like him) you look familiar.
Imp: I should. I'm the inner you!
Doofenshmirtz: Inner me?! Are you the one that's been making those good inators?!?!
Inner Doofenshmirtz: I was trying to help you, you nincompoop!
(Flashback)
Inner Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) Yes, late at night, I was instructing you how to make the ultimate inator!
Inner Doofenshmirtz: (in flashback) That's enough! Don't overtighten it, like your brain! Now, let's just imagine how it will work.
(Fantasy sequence of Doofenshmirtz with the inators laughing)
Doofenshmirtz: The Cake-O'-Hug-A-Fetti-inator! Fire!
(The inator zaps the city of Danville turning it into frosted desert delicacies.)
Skater Dude: What's happening? Dude, is this cake?
(The inator zaps again.)
Woman: Ugh, the cake is hugging us!
Man: Hey, everybody, it's okay! We can eat our way out!
(The inator zaps a third time, this time at three clouds turning them into confetti.)
Man: Ugh! Forget about eating it now! It's covered in paper!
Doofenshmirtz: It's mine! The Tri-State Area's finally mine! (The building disappears and he falls into a throne and gets crowned. The throne floats into the air surrounded by herald trumpets.) Hey, wait a minute! Wait!
(End fantasy sequence.)
(End flashback.)
Doofenshmirtz: Now, was that a fantasy inside a flashback inside of a dream?
Inner Doofenshmirtz: Well, let me put it this way. (Slaps Doofenshmirtz.)
(End dream sequence.)
Doofenshmirtz: What? What? What?!
Norm: Did you have a nice nap?
Doofenshmirtz: Ugh, enough with the hugging! Let go!
Norm: (lets go of Doofenshmirtz in a manner that sharply throws the evil scientist onto the floor extremely hard) You're da boss!
Doofenshmirtz: (on the ground moaning) Y'know, I'm gonna make a plug for you so I can unplug you.
(Cut back to Linda and Candace playing chess.)
Linda: Gosh, it's been so long since I've played chess. I can't remember how the knight moves. Do you remember?
Candace: I'm not really sure.
Linda: (standing up) Oh, the boys'll know.
Candace: What?! (sitting Linda back down) No no no! You sit! I'll go ask 'em. (Runs to the sliding door and imitates the sound of the door opening.) Hey, guys! Uh, do you know how the knight moves? (Doing a bad imitation of Phineas.) Uh, yeah, Candace, it moves straight up and then, uh, straight down on the same square. (normal voice) Oh, hey, yeah, that's great! Thanks! Oh, wait, what was that, Ferb? Oh, yeah, you don't talk! (Imitates the sound of the door closing and draws the curtains on the door.)
Linda: You know what's funny?
Candace: What's funny?
Linda: I have this weird desire to go outside. (Candace gets more nervous) I mean, normally, around this time of day, you're pulling me to go out in the yard and I kind of have a hankering to do it! It's like a Pavlovian "go outside" response. Let's go!
Candace: Oh, Mom, what are you, a robot? You gotta do the same thing every day?
Linda: Okay, Candace, what's going on out there? (Linda walks forward but Candace attempts to push her back.) What don't you want me to see?
Candace: Nothing! Nothing, Mom! (grabs onto her mother's leg) No no no!
Linda: Candace, let go!
Candace: Mom, look! Checkmate! (chuckles nervously)
Linda: Candace!
Candace: Wait! Let's play darts!
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz on the floor.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, wow, Perry the Platypus, I just had the freakiest dream. You know those dreams that seem logical while you're having them but are total nonsense when you wake up? (Pushing the inators together) I think I was some kind of 1940s business beaver, oh, and, uh... Oh, I might as well get these three useless things out of my lab and push them out onto the balcony and... (Perry struggles to get out of the trap) Wait a minute! I've seen this before! In my dream! That's right! It's only really effective if I put them all together! (Perry gets out of the trap) Hey, hey, Perry the Platy— (Perry flings into him.)
(Cut back to Candace with her hand behind her back leaning against a door with a guilty look on her face.)
Linda: I mean it, Candace! You're acting really strange! (Candace dials her phone behind her back.) If I'm gonna go outside, I'm going to go outside! (The house phone rings.) Ugh, there's the phone! Hold that thought! (picks up) Hello?
Candace: Uh, (holding her nose to disguise her voice) please hold for some important information.
Linda: Well, okay, as long as it's important.
(Cut to the backyard where the gang turn their jetpacks off.)
Jeremy: Wow! You guys are the best! This was truly an amazing day! It's too bad Candace missed the whole thing. And, Ferb, where did you learn to serve like that?
Ferb: At the Yorkshire Athletic School for In Your Face.
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz on the balcony.)
Doofenshmirtz: I dare you to try that again! (Perry kicks him again and the inators roll away.) Well, I did dare him, I guess. No! No! (The first inator falls off) A third of my inator! (Wide shot of the building as the falling inator activates)
(Cut back to the house where Linda is still on the phone listening to the muzak version of her '80s hit. Cut to the empty backyard, where Candace walks in.)
Candace: Jeremy? I guess the game is over? (picks up the volleyball, which gets zapped and turns into a cake.) Cake. Okay...
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz and Perry fighting.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, Norm, a little help, please!
Norm: Who needs a hug?
(Perry tumbles off of Doofenshmirtz, who gets smooshed by a falling Norm.)
Doofenshmirtz: Noooo!!!
(Norm crashes into the inator, and the second part of it falls and activates.)
(Cut back to the backyard where the net gets zapped. It "hugs" the other jetpacks and flies away, much to Candace's confusion.)
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz.)
Doofenshmirtz: Norm! What did you do, you big garbage disposal?! Now two of them are ruined! (Sarcastically) W-Why don't you just throw the third one over?!
Norm: (getting up) If you insist! (Doofenshmirtz flinches in despair realizing what he's done; Norm throws the machine off the balcony)
Doofenshmirtz: Nooooooo-ho-hooooo!!!!
(The third inator activates.)
(Cut back to the house where the net and the jetpacks get zapped and turn into confetti. Cut to Candace alone in the backyard still holding the cake.)
Candace: Well, this has been a weird afternoon.
Jeremy: Candace! There you are! What's all this?
Candace: Well, uh, uh, yeah! Heh! It's our two-month, nine-day anniversary!
Jeremy: Oh, great! Uh, (at Phineas and Ferb) was I supposed to get her a present?
(Ferb produces a bouquet of flowers and gives it to Phineas who hands it to Jeremy. Linda approaches her daughter.)
Linda: Hon, if you didn't want me to come out and spoil the surprise, you should have said so. But you are going clean up all this confetti, right?
Candace's Brain: Nice going. You busted yourself.
Candace: Quiet, you!
(Cut to D.E.I. where Perry hang-glides his way out. Cut to Doofenshmirtz and Inner Doofenshmirtz on the balcony.)
Doofenshmirtz: So much for that inator.
Inner Doofenshmirtz: Ugh, tell me about it!
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, what are you doing here?! This isn't a dream!
Inner Doofenshmirtz: Oh, isn't it?
(Pause.)
Doofenshmirtz: No. No, it isn't.
Inner Doofenshmirtz: Oh, crud.
(In a puff of smoke, the Inner Doofenshmirtz disappears and Doofenshmirtz looks at the camera in anger.)



(Scene opens up with the Flynn-Fletcher house in view. Then a close-up on Candace's slippers is seen at the title card. She then sits down and solemnly pours herself some cereal and milk)
Linda: Morning, sunshine! So, what are your plans for today, besides running up my phone bill?
Candace: I've got nothing. Every day, I always end up having another failed bust attempt blow up in my face. (throws some milk on a cat) Starting today, no busting, no blow up in face. I'm taking a me-day.
Linda: I'll believe it when I see it!
(Switches to the antique store, where Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Buford and Baljeet are seen assisting Lawrence.)
Phineas: (seeing a poster on a wall) Huh, I've never seen that there before!
Lawrence: Cool, huh? I put that up inspired by my close-encounter.
Phineas: Close encounter?
Lawrence: Oh, yes. You have heard of the Danville crop circles?
Isabella: They've been appearing all over town! Some people say that they've been made by spaceships!
Buford: I don't believe in spaceships!
Isabella: But, Buford, you've been in a space ship. Several, actually.
Buford: I'm a skeptic!
Lawrence: Gather 'round kids, and I'll tell you a story about the close-encounter. It was a dark night, and I was out for a drive, when my motorcar began to behave strangely. Twas then when a bright green light started shining and I couldn't help but walking towards the light scource.
Phineas: What happened?
Lawrence: Well, as it turns out, it was just a tow truck driver I had called. He charged up my battery, and off he went!
Isabella: So, if you never saw a UFO, then why did you keep the poster?
Lawrence: Well, let's just say that the sightings have been enough evidence of UFOs. (leaves)
Buford: His words confuse me.
Phineas: Dad can be like that. But, nevertheless. I know what we're gonna do today: We're gonna solve the mystery of the Danville crop circles. Hey, where's Perry?
(Switches to an antique puppet theater, where Agent P goes to get his briefing from Major Monogram)
(Song: "Monogram Rap This Old Man")
Major Monogram: (while holding a puppet version of himself, singing to the tune of "This Old Man") ♪ Agent P, ♪
♪ Over here. Let us get this thing in gear. ♪
♪ There's a big, ol' lump of trouble in town ♪
♪ Awful things are going down. ♪
(stops to inhale)
♪ Please go stop Doofenshmirtz ♪
♪ I know this puppet show's the worst, ♪
♪ But I never said that I could write a song-- ♪
Ohh... Could you just leave? This is really embarrassing.
♪ Perry! ♪
(Switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher house, where Candace is on the couch watching TV and eating cereal, while Phineas, Ferb, and the others are constructing something in the backyard)
Phineas: (as he and the others work) Hi, Candace!
Candace: No, no, no, Candace. You're taking a me day. (changes channel) Back to my stories.
(Switches to Evil, Inc.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Perry: (flies in and gets trapped in a chef's hat)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, look at you in your "widdle" trap! So, why the chef's hat, you ask? Well, it was the cheapest way I could find to trap you. Hey, times are tough waiting for my monthly alimony check!
(backstory starts)
You have to watch every penny. And that's why the 37 minutes, or it's free deal at the local pizzarea is sure to be put to the test.
Pizza man: (knocking)
Doofenshmirtz: (whilst slowly gliding his feet along the door, constantly checking his watch while doing so) Just a second!
Pizza man: (continues knocking)
Doofenshmirtz: Any minute!
Pizza man: (continues knocking)
Doofenshmirtz: (continues gliding feet) Almost there!
Pizza man: (knocks)
Doofenshmirtz: (opens door)
Pizza man: (holds out hand, in a fashion of asking for money)
Doofenshmirtz: Can you belive he made me pay, anyway?
(flashback ends)
It was there when I decided to get revenge. Cheap revenge. I placed explosives in his pizza dough.
(explosion)
But you know what? He turned it into a special! And he actually charged more for it! But then, I decided that I'm not gonna stand for it! (removes lab coat sleeves) Behold: the Dough-Blow-Inator! You wear it! (lab coat falls off) You see, this device will blow pizza dough into the air and hold it aloft indefinitely! I'm going to challenge the pizza man to a dough-spinning contest and humiliate him in front of tens of people! And why are you coming with me, you ask? (puts hat on) Well, this just completes the look.
(Switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Phineas: In order to crack this case, we need to get a bird's-eye view of the situation.
Isabella: So, why not use a hot-air balloon, or a helicopter?
Phineas: I like to stay on theme.
(camera zooms out, revealing a UFO)
Isabella: Oh, good idea.
(UFO takes off)
Baljeet: So, Buford, here we are literally inside of a UFO. Do you still not believe in them?
Buford: My skepticism has evolved he and shaped my character.
Phineas: Let's fan out and start searching for clues.
(UFO flies over a farm outside of Danville)
Farmer: (takes picture of UFO with cell phone) Huh, I'm not crazy after all! (to "Bob") Oh, yeah? Well, no one asked you, Farm Utensil Bob!
Phineas: There's a lot of crop circles around here.
Buford: So you say.
Baljeet: Look, more crop circles! And they are exactly the same shape as the others!
Phineas: Maybe they're trying to tell us something.
Baljeet: That they like that shape, apparently!
Phineas: Maybe... We'll have to search for more clues.
Citizens: What is that?! Oh, my gosh! It's an invasion!
(Switches back to the living room, where Candace is now watching soap operas)
Man: There is nothing that can keep us apart...
Candace: Candace.
Woman: As long as you love me...
Candace: Jeremy.
Woman: ...we'll never be separated again.
Oshinomi: We interrupt this program with some breaking news. A UFO as been spotted in Danville. I'm here with Gordon Gutsofanemu.
Gordon Gutsofanemu: These crop circle sightings have been popping up all over Danville, yet none are as important as the UFO just spotted today. Can you describe the creatures flying the ship?
Random guy: There were these 2 creatures! One of them had this crazy triangle head and the other looked like a sideways "T"!
Gutsofanemu: Sounds terrifying!
Random guy: Oh, it was! They don't look human at all!
(an artist rendering of beings that strongly resemble Phineas and Ferb is shown)
Gutsofanemu: No. No, they don't. Who are these invaders? What are they doing here? What is the meaning of these crop circles? Why can't I time my barbecue right? (in background) Either I'm waiting an hour when they're supposed to heat up, or they're already past their peak when I bring out the steaks.
(Candace's eye twitches. She takes her phone out and begins dialing.)
Candace: I gotta call Mom! They're gonna be so... Oh, no, they don't! I'm taking a me day!
(Cut to Danville Park. The pizza guy is entertaining tens of people on a stage with his dough creations.)
Pizza Guy: (Italian accent) Hey, everybody, she got-a free pizza? (audience cheers) Hey, look-a what you see! It's a dough-osaur! Ha hey! The Leaning Tower of Pizza! Ay? Everyone having a good time?
Doofenshmirtz: No! No, we're not! We're having a rotten time, you stingy jerk!
Pizza Guy: Why you-a callin' me these bad guy things?
Doofenshmirtz: Because you cheated me! 37 minutes or free! That was the deal! And 38 minutes later, you welched on it!
Pizza Guy: But I would-a never! Wait-a one second! You are the guy who set up-a the traps to slow me down, yes?
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, I have traps, but th-they weren't necessarily for you, y'know, specifically, but... Look, enough of your excuses! I challenge you to a dough duel!
Pizza Guy: (using his dough as a grass skirt while doing the hula) A dough duel, eh? I accept-a your challenge! If you win, I give you-a free pizza for life! But if I win, you no order my pizza ever again!
Doofenshmirtz: Deal! I don't want your stupid pizza anyway. (Perry struggles to get out of the trap.) Don't bother! Chin strap!
(Cut back to the saucer ride.)
Phineas: Well, this is the last one.
Isabella: But we still don't know what it means.
Phineas: Maybe we need to get a fresh take on this. (to Baljeet) Bring up the crop circle map.
(Baljeet brings up the map.)
Phineas: That's it!
Baljeet: I do not see anything.
Phineas: Exactly! Because there's nothing to see! Right...there! That's the one spot where the aliens haven't been! I'll bet that's their next stop. Let's go!
(Cut back to Candace's me day.)
Gutsofanemu: (on TV) The alien ship has been seen hovering over...
(Candace changes the channel to a Spanish station, which also talks about the flying saucer. She flips the channel again.)
Spokeswoman: (on TV) ...makeup tips, (Candace smiles) so you can look your best for the impending alien invasion.
(Candace's phone rings.)
Stacy: (on phone) Candace, didja see the news? That is your brothers, right?
Candace: Yes, but I'm not busting them.
Stacy: (on phone) Uh, hello? The ultimate bust just falls in your lap and you're not gonna jump at the chance? What's up with that?
Candace: Listen, Stacy!! Me day! No bust, no blow up in face!! FACE!!!
Stacy: (on phone) Well, now that you've put it crazy...
Candace: Back to my stories. (hangs up) Takin' a me day.
(Song: "Non Reaction Song")
♪ Gotta keep myself together, ♪
♪ No, I'm not even movin', ♪
♪ If I just do nothin', ♪
♪ Then my attitude's improvin'. ♪
♪ Na, na, na, na, na, na ♪
(Resist the urge to move.)
♪ Na, na, na, na, na, na, na ♪
♪ Get down, get down, ♪
♪ And feel the satisfaction; ♪
♪ Stop doing something, ♪
♪ Do the ♪ (non-reaction).
♪ Na, na, na, na, na, na ♪
(No, it's okay, don't get up.)
♪ Na, na, na, na, na, na, na ♪
(Stay on the couch.)
(Cut back to the saucer.)
Baljeet: (to Buford) So, if you do not believe the flying saucer is real, why did you want to take a turn flying it?
Buford: Just confirmin' it's not real. Besides, I categorically deny I'm flyin' it.
Isabella: Look out!
(The saucer crashes into the "FREE PIZZA" banner and then crashes into the stage where Doof and the Pizza Guy are.)
Pizza Guy: A little early to be knockin' my pizza down. We haven't even-a started yet!
Doofenshmirtz: That wasn't me. You... W-Wait, where's my chef's hat?
(Cut to Perry slinking in the hat offstage. Doof growls.)
Pizza Guy: You-a ready, fella?
Doofenshmirtz: Nope. First, I'm gonna do a little pre-gloating. I'm goin' to wipe the floor with you. I'm goin' to make you scream for mercy and there will be none! Men will weep. Children will wail! Whales will wail! Like...like this... (Mimics whale song.) Like they do, except they'll be doing it on your behalf! And women will look away as you walk the hall of shame! (beat) Okay, now I'm ready.
Pizza Guy: One-a, two-a, three-a...GO!
(Perry switches the control from blow to suck and the pizza dough gets sucked in.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, no, no!
Pizza Guy: (also getting sucked in) Hey! What's-a your deal?!
(More and more things get sucked into Doof's sleeves.)
Doofenshmirtz: This is not at all what I had in mind! Oh! Oh, this really sucks! I mean, literally! Okay!
(A woman's baby gets sucked in, the woman does so as well, and so do more spectators.)
Man: This is really uncomfortable.
Doofenshmirtz: Boy!
(KABOOM!!!)
Doofenshmirtz: That failure was spectacular...even for me!
Pizza Guy: You must be a lot of fun at the parties! (American accent) But, seriously, don't order my pizzas again, okay?
Doofenshmirtz: Alright, deal. Curse you, Perry the Platypus!
(Cut back to the saucer.)
Isabella: (offscreen) Well, this is the spot.
(The saucer lands and the gang exits into the field.)
Phineas: Fan out, gang. Maybe we can find out why this is the only field in Danville with no crop circles.
Buford: You're wastin' your time. There's nothin' here but grass. Grass and this...key! (He uses the key as a hair scratcher.) Ah. Oh, that's good.
Isabella: Uh, Phineas?
Phineas: It's the same shape as the crop circles.
Buford: And I suppose that makes it special?
(Suddenly, a weird beam appears over the field. We hear weird theremin music in the background. The key floats up into the air out of Buford's palm. Cut to reveal a giant flying saucer. Cut to the saucer window to reveal two aliens who look like Phineas and Ferb. The Ferb alien speaks.)
Alien: Thank you for returning our key. We left large signs in fields all over the Tri-State Area, but you are the only Earthlings that came to our aid.
Phineas: Oh, no problem. Glad we could help.
Alien: To return the favor, here is something you lost in 1977.
(Something crashes to the ground.)
Phineas: Cool! The Voyager Space Probe!
Alien: Goodbye and good luck!
(The ship departs as the gang bid it farewell.)
Isabella: So long!
Phineas: Take it easy! Wow, that artist rendering on the news was really accurate!
Buford: Okay, there might be somethin' to this whole UFO thing.
(Cut back to Candace. Linda enters with a pizza box.)
Linda: Candace, I got the pizza you ordered.
Candace: Thanks, Mom.
Linda: I have time to do nice things when I'm not distracted by panicked phone calls.
(Phineas' saucer returns to the backyard.)
Candace: Oh, look! It's the boys in their UFO! And Mom is in the next room! (beat as Candace's eye twitches again) Nope! I've had a lovely day and I'm not gonna ruin it with another failed bust attempt. No way this day is gonna blow up in my— (She opens the box and the pizza explodes in her face and blocks the saucer from view.) Oh! So that's what they meant by "exploding pizza".
Linda: It's all the rage with the foodies. Oh, there's Phineas and Ferb. Hi, boys! (She waves and the gang waves back.)
(Crossfade to later that night. Cut to Candace's bedroom. She wakes up from her bed and looks out her window.)
Candace: Yup, still there. (goes back to bed) I'm not sayin' a word.

End Credits
♪ Gotta keep myself together, ♪
♪ No, I'm not even movin', ♪
♪ If I just do nothin', ♪
♪ Then my attitude's improvin'. ♪
♪ Na, na, na, na, na, na ♪
(Resist the urge to move.)
♪ Na, na, na, na, na, na, na ♪
♪ Get down, get down, ♪
♪ And feel the satisfaction; ♪
♪ Stop doing something, ♪
♪ Do the ♪ (non-reaction).
♪ Na, na, na, na, na, na ♪



(Scene opens up at the Flynn-Fletcher house. Lawrence Fletcher walks up to Phineas, Ferb, and Buford, who are standing under the tree in the backyard.)
Lawrence: Hello lads!
Phineas: Hi Dad!
Lawrence: What are you boys doing?
Phineas: I was just telling Buford about phone booths.
Buford: And I'm not buying it!
Lawrence: Oh no Buford, they were real. They were tiny rooms where you could talk on the phone in private.
Phineas: Yeah! And you'd have to put coins in them to make calls.
Buford: You guys are blowing my mind!
Lawrence: Speaking of coins... What's this here? Behind your ear? (Reaches behind Phineas's ear.) It's a quarter!
Buford: How did you do that?
Lawrence: A magician never reveals his secrets. (Walks away)
Buford: Your dad's really great at tricks!
Phineas: Not really, I just keep a bunch of quarters behind my ear 'cause he enjoys it so much. (Pulls a handful of quarters from behind his ear.)
Buford: Wanna see what I got behind my ear? (Pulls a large ear from behind his ear.) It's another ear!
Baljeet: (Appearing from behind Buford.) Miiiindfliiip.
Phineas: What are you doing Baljeet?
Baljeet: I am Buford's hype man. Check him out! Miiiindfliiip.
Phineas: That's great! You can be a hype man for all of us. Because I know what we're gonna do today. We're putting on a magic show! Hey, where's Ferb?
(Buford's head flips back and reveals Ferb in Buford's body.)
Buford: Ta-da! I switched my body for a dummy of myself, that Ferb climbed into when you looked away.
Baljeet: Miiiindfliiip!
(Scene changes to "Steam Noir" coffee shop. Vanessa Doofenshmirtz and Monty Monogram are standing next to each other in line.)
Vanessa: (Glances back and notices Monty.) I know you. Didn't I see you flying off my dad's roof?
Monty: You're going to have to be more specific; I fly off so many roofs.
Vanessa: Really?
Monty: Nah, just the one. Of course I remember you. You're Vanessa Doofenshmirtz.
Vanessa: And you're Monty Monogram.
Monty: That's right.
Vanessa: Should we even be seen in the same room together? I mean, you know, our dads being sworn enemies and all?
Cashier: What can I get for you two?
Vanessa and Monty: (At the same time): Cappuccino with chocolate powder on top and a ginger scone please. (Glance at each other)
Cashier: ...and two straws no doubt.
Monty: Okay, putting aside the fact that our fathers are sworn enemies, want to have those cappuccinos together?
Vanessa: Sure, sounds cool.
(Scene changes to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Morning Agent P. I guess we're getting a little bit of a late start. Our sources say that Doofenshmirtz is on his way to "Steam Noir", the hippest coffee house in town. We need you to get there before he arrives and stop him from doing anything, you know, nefarious. ...I've got a "Word a Day" calendar.
(Scene change to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard.)
Candace: Phineas, Ferb, what is this?
Phineas: We're putting on a magic show. Do you want to be in it?
Candace: I'm calling Mom right now. (Pulls out her cell phone)
Phineas: Yeah Mom! She can be in it too.
Buford: A cell phone! Perfect! (Grabs Candace's phone)
Candace: Hey!
Buford: Watch this trick. (Covers the cell phone with a cloth and smashes it with a hammer) Voila! One cell phone transformed into miscellaneous electronic parts!
Baljeet: Miiiindfliiip!
Candace: Okay, really amusing. Bring it back.
Buford: It's not that kind of trick.
Candace: Ughh! I can still use the landline.
Buford: The landline? That was my first trick! (Holds up broken landline phone pieces)
Monty: It's so awesome that we ran into each other. Can you imagine the look on both our dad's faces if they saw us here together?
Vanessa: (Laughs) I'm surprised your dad hasn't put some kind of a spy camera on you.
Monty: You know, where's your dad's Date-Ruin-inator?
Vanessa: (Laughs) So this is a date?
Monty: Well, isn't it?
Vanessa: Maybe.
(Perry walks in the front door and sees Vanessa and Monty)
Vanessa: Do you usually have coffee with your dad's sworn enemy's daughters?
Monty: No, just girls whose roofs I've flown off of.
Vanessa: Oh see, now I feel special.
Monty: Yeah I don't just fly off any roof you know.
Vanessa: Course not.
Monty: I've got standards. It's got to be a building shaped like a... like a...
Vanessa: An Easter Island head?
Monty: Oh my gosh, exactly. What is that all about?
Vanessa: I have no idea. Hold that thought, this needs more milk.
(Walks to a table for milk where Perry's in disguise)
Vanessa: Perry? Is that you? Listen Perry, I'd really appreciate it if you didn't let my dad know that I'm here with the son of his sworn enemy. This is going pretty well and I wouldn't want him to spoil it. Can you help me? (Perry nods) Thanks Perry.
(Doofenshmirtz pulls up to Steam Noir and walks in the front door)
Doofenshmirtz: Steam Noir! Vanessa says the coolest people in town hang out right here.
Monty: My dad thought I wanted to be an acrobat. I mean it was fun but it wasn't my thing.
Vanessa: My dad was the same way with... (Doofenshmirtz walks in front and Vanessa's voice fades out)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah waiter, you mind if I tell you my evil scheme? My nemesis didn't show up today and I still have to get it out. I figured since I'm getting nowhere with the older Tri-State population, maybe I should go for the younger demographic. So, behold! The Cool-inator! Well, you can't really behold it, it's out in the car. But trust me, it's behold-worthy. First, I will suck all the cool out of this place, it being the hippest coffee house in town. Then, I will blast myself with the cool concentrate, transforming into such an "awesome dude" that you, disaffected youth, will have no choice but to follow me blindly and help me, you know, take over the Tri-State Area! Anyway, the Cool-inator is so hip that it only runs on espresso, so let's fill her up.
Cashier: (Takes out headphones) What'd you say dude?
Doofenshmirtz: ...I need ten gallons of espresso.
Cashier: We only serve it in this cup, man.
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, really?
Cashier: It's espresso, man.
Doofenshmirtz: Fine. Let's see... this is about a quarter cup... and there's two cups in a pint... that would make... I'll have nine-hundred ninety nine more of these please.
Cashier: ...There are six-hundred forty quarter cups in ten gallons, man.
Doofenshmirtz: (Outside pouring a cup of espresso into the Cool-inator) This is gonna take a lot of trips.
(Scene change to the Flynn-Fletcher house, where Phineas and Ferb perform tricks)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, get ready for the Mindflip! For centuries, shaman conjured magic for their tribes, and countless magicians practice hocus pocus for their audiences.
Baljeet: It is a... Miiiindflip.
Phineas: How do we do it? I'll tell you how, if you can keep a secret. It's. A. Trick!
(Scene change to Steam Noir)
Monty: Carl's in the college right? He can program the most sophisticated satellite tracking computer in the world but every time I try to call my dad he cuts me off. Can't even work a landline.
Vanessa: You think that's bad, every time I use the microwave, Norm starts involuntarily rapping.
(Monty and Vanessa talk and share stories indistinctly in the background while Doofenshmirtz walks back and forth from the counter to the car with espresso, as Perry hides the two from his view with assorted objects.)
(Song: Won't Keep Us Apart )
♪ I know that you and I ♪
♪ We come from different places ♪
♪ There's no telling why or who your heart embraces ♪
♪ These feelings that we share, ♪
♪ There's a reason why they're inside us ♪
♪ They're both aware of the list of things that won't divide us ♪
♪ The sun and stars and the moon and the planets won't keep us apart ♪
♪ A  herd of wild wildebeests, a gaggle of flamin' geese won't keep us apart (Won't keep us apart) ♪
♪ Duct-taped bungee cords, fiberglass diving boards, won't keep us apart ♪
♪ A device designed specifically to keep us apart won't keep us apart ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Hit me again. Hey do you mind if I use your restroom? I mean, technically I haven't had any coffee here, but I've bought coffee here and I thought that would qualify. I had a lot of coffee earlier this morning... Heh, okay TMI, I get it.
(Perry sets a trap causing Doofenshmirtz to slide and skid into the restroom without seeing Vanessa.)
Doofenshmirtz: Is this...Waaaah!
Vanessa: So I look up, and there he is in front of the whole school... (indistinct)... finally stepping on the other team's feet as he walks.
Monty:  Well at least he showed up. I mean, if I had a nickel for every time I got the "Your father couldn't make it, he's working late." call. But I guess that's really your dad's fault.
Vanessa: So... what exactly do you mean by that?
Doofenshmirtz: (screams as he skids on the way out of the bathroom, stopping at the counter, sighs) ... You're out of paper.
(Scene change to Mindflip)
Phineas: Through the power of enchantment, and a few nifty dance moves, Ferb and I have conjured the glittered demons and are ready to pull off...
Candace: Phineas, Ferb, you are so busted! What is this thing? Get me out of here!
(Scene change to Steam Noir)
Doofenshmirtz: (Pouring the last cup into the Cool-inator) Finito!
(Doofenshmirtz walks into Steam Noir with the Cool-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Alright, heads up hipsters, get ready to lose your cool!
Monty: Well what I meant is that my dad spends all his time dealing with your father's schemes.
Vanessa: I'll have you know, my father is a misunderstood genius.
Monty: Genius? I have three words for you: Self. Destruct. Buttons.
Vanessa: And yet, in spite of all that, there's my dad free to do it all over again the next day. Whoa, really effective bunch of spies you've got there major.
(Perry pushes Monty and Vanessa into the back alley behind Steam Noir)
Monty:  At least my dad's spy network isn't funded by monthly alimony checks.
Vanessa: You do know that what he calls a "spy network" is actually just a petting zoo. With hats.
Doofenshmirtz: Say goodbye to your street cred hip-cats! (turns on the Cool-inator)
Male Customer 1: So I said to him, "Step off my guest list, poser." (gets zapped by the Cool-inator) You want to hear how my nose whistles?
Male Customer 2 : Yeah man, you know, it's all about my blogs, you know. I blog about blogs that blog about other blogs. (gets zapped by the Cool-inator along with Female customer)
Female customer: You want to hear a dream I had about my cat?
Male Customer 3: Can I get some more local, organic water? (gets zapped by the Cool-inator) I can't drink any more ice tea, because when I drink ice tea I get craazyyyyy.
(Scene change to Mindflip backstage)
Candace: Finally, daylight. Phineas and Ferb! (Linda and Lawrence's car pulls up in front of the house.) That's Mom's car! Mom! (Runs outside)
(Scene change to Steam Noir)
Doofenshmirtz: Now to set the -inator on "reverse" and blast myself with all of the cool!
(Perry flips the Cool-inator onto Doofenshmirtz, where it shoots a ray before exploding. The ray bounces off a satellite.)
(Scene change to Candace meeting Linda and Lawrence in front of the house)
Candace: Phineas and Ferb built a really dangerous magic show in the backyard! You've gotta bust them!
(Linda and Lawrence get hit by the Cool-inator ray)
Linda: Really Candace? Busting? That's so beginning of summer.
Lawrence: There's a Luciano Rigatoni festival at the art house.
Linda: Let's go.
Candace: But Rigatoni's work is passionless! With minimal importance! Every piece betrays its own lack of interest in the subject matter!
(Scene change to Steam Noir)
Doofenshmirtz: You know, Perry the Platypus, this is very uncool of you.
(Perry takes off his fedora to reveal a beanie propeller cap)
Doofenshmirtz: A beanie propeller cap? Tha... (The propeller spins and Perry takes off) Uh... alright I'll give that to you, that's kind of cool.
Customers: Are you cyber? Uh, want to do a sketch in my sketch book? Where'd you get that gnarly lab coat?
Doofenshmirtz: No! No! No you're nerds! Get away from me, I'm not like you! I'm... I'm cool! Or, I was going to be cool, when I shot myself with the -inator, which is now destroy... uh... curse you Perry the Platypus!
(Scene change to Monty and Vanessa in the back alley behind Steam Noir)
Monty: You know, our fathers are probably right, we shouldn't even be talking to each other.
Vanessa: This was a huge mistake.
Monty: Fine.
Vanessa: Fine.
Monty: ...So wanna do this again?
Vanessa: (hands Monty her card) Call me.
(Scene change to Mindflip)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, in our grand finale, we make everything disappear!
(Everything disappears)
Audience: Ooooh!
Candace: Phineas?! Ferb?! (Sees Perry) Oh there you are Perry. (enters backyard) Where is it?! What happened?!
Audience member: All gone!
Candace: You two!
Phineas: Here's your phone. (Hands Candace her cell phone)
Candace: It's totally fine! Okay, this may be an easy enough trick, but how did you make the whole show disappear?
Ferb: A magician never reveals his secrets.
Candace: That's a little cliché Ferb, don't you think?
(Ferb's head flips back, revealing Baljeet inside the Ferb dummy)
Baljeet: Miiiindfliiip!
(End credits)



(The Flynn-Fletcher family is at a flea market, in front of a stadium bearing a billboard that reads "Danville SWAP MEET")
Lawrence: Well here we are gang, the semi-annual Tri-State Area antique show and swap meet. Here you can find anything under the sun, literally, because it's held outdoors. Ha, ha.
Phineas: Anything Dad?
Lawrence: Well, actually there is one thing you probably won't be able to find here. An 1807 Dorcham and Wesley Boot Scraper, only one of them was ever made, (dramatically) and it's been lost to the mists of time! Oh, if only I could find that, I'd be the envy of the entire antiquing community; especially Worthington Dubois, (he clenches his fists) my antiquing nemesis!
Linda: You have an antiquing nemesis?
Lawrence: You don't know everything about me.
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're going to do today!
Song: Danville Swap Meet
♪ We got chrome-plated carburetors, ♪
♪ calibrated regulators, ♪
♪ tube socks, cuckoo clocks, ♪
♪ multi-colored alligators, ♪
♪ taxidermy jackalope, presidential bar soap, ♪
♪ you can find it all at the swap meet. ♪
♪ You can take it away, ♪
♪ if you can fit it in your ride, ♪
♪ gotta lower the seat and then give it a slide, ♪
♪ but there are things you gotta know when you head to the show, ♪
♪ if you add your stash you got to do it with cash. ♪
♪ Purple-padded toilet seat, ♪
♪ dolphin made of concrete, ♪
♪ hubcaps, mudflaps, food that isn't safe to eat, ♪
♪ macramé dust mop, curtain made of pop-tops, ♪
♪ you can find it all at the swap meet. ♪
♪ You can find it all at the swap meet... ♪
Phineas: Dad, I know you said that the Dorcham and Westley boot scraper thing was lost to the mists of time.
Lawrence: I did, didn't I? Well, I suppose I get melodramatic when I start talking about antiques.
Phineas: Well Ferb and I found this in that parchment booth. (Ferb takes out an old, worn out scroll)
Lawrence: (He examines the scroll) A Dorcham and Westley Boot Scraper's map! But only three of them were ever made, (dramatically) and they were lost to the mists of- oh I'm doing it again.
Phineas: And we know what we're going to do today. Hey, where's Perry?
Man: (to his customer) A Reno Man number forty-five, that's a classic gig brother.
(Perry turns the cover of the comic book, which reads "Agent of O.W.C.A" and bears a drawing of a Major Monogram. Climbing into an opening, he slides down a chute and enters his lair)
Major Monogram: Good morning Agent P. Look, here's the thing, I don't know what Doof is up to. I've been busy giving each of my friends personalized ring-tones. I have one for you.
♪ Perry ♪
Major Monogram: -and one for Carl.
♪ Carl ♪
Monogram: I want to send out a ringtone for when I call my friends, (monotonously) but I don't have a theme song. Anyway, go stop Doofenshmirtz!
Candace: What an incredible waste of time. I mean, come on. Most of this stuff if you saw it on the sidewalk, you'd walk around– it. (She sees something) A Ducky Momo, first edition, green pupil variant, with a left handed pull cord! Heavenly light, angel chorus! I must have it. But I gotta play it cool.
(She walks over to the man who is selling the Ducky Momo)
Candace: So, uh, yeah, a friend needs a paperweight for her, uh, desk, and mmm, this little trinket looks about the right size.
Flea market Salesman: Please, little girl, this little trinket is a Ducky Momo, first edition, green pupil variant, with a left handed pull chord. There are only two of these in North America, they're more rare than Dorcham and Westley Boot Scraper's Maps, but not quite rare as the Dorcham and Westley Boot Scraper.
Candace: Yeah, yeah, mists of time, whatever. What do you want for it?
Salesman: You couldn't afford it.
Candace: Would you take something in trade?
Salesman: The one thing I want is the one thing I can't have. That. Early Twentieth Century Abyssinian baby rattle. But he won't sell it to me because of that silly French cabinet!
Salesman 2: You broke the arms off my armoire, now its just a -oire!
Candace: If I get you that baby rattle, will you give me the Ducky Momo?
Salesman: Yes, I will.
Candace: You! How much for that baby rattle?!
Salesman 2: Why, so you can sell it to him?
Candace: Well, uh, yeah.
Salesman 2: No sale.
Candace: Oh, come on! Everybody wants something.
Salesman 2: Okay, there is something I've always wanted. A Flenco G4 crystal radio!
Salesman 3: (With the radio) ...If you get me a cane with a cobra on it.
Salesman 4: Battle of Danville commemorative dentures.
Salesman 5: Pink Gorilla suit.
Candace: Ducky Momo, First edition figurine I will have you.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, hello, Perry the Platypus. Well, as they say in the film business, it's a wrap! (Perry becomes wrapped up in rolls of filmstrips) Get it? 'Cause you're wrapped. In film. Well as you know, films sway public opinion better than any other medium. So I have produced a movie that will convince the people of the Tri-State Area, to make me their leader. Here's a clip.
Doofenshmirtz: (in the film) Make me your leader.
Doofenshmirtz: It can't miss! Anywho, I'm going to enter it in the Danville Film Festival today. There's only one small hitch, turns out it's Danville's Young Filmmakers Festival. You have to be less than fifteen years old, but no matter. Because, behold, my De-Age-inator. With this I'll turn myself into a fourteen year old boy, submit my film to the festival, and sit back as the people of Danville are convinced that I must be installed as the leader of the entire Tri-State Area!
Candace: Cigar box banjo. An old time diving suit. Fur lined telephone, be right back.
Lawrence: Well the map has led us to Boot Scrapers Hall. (They enter Boot Scrapers Hall) Oh, the spirit of Danville, see how his sole gleams, the Boot Scapers took their craft seriously.
Phineas: Hey, look there's a plaque. But what are these funny symbols?
Lawrence: (He gasps) By Harry! That's Boot Scrape! The secret language of the ancient boot scapers. (Reading) To gain the world, and halt the wintle, reverse your mind, and mind the lintel.
Phineas: The lintel?
Lawrence: It's the space between two columns. Look!
Phineas: Is that Greek?
Lawrence: Well I know Greek, but I don't recognize some of these symbols.
Phineas: Wait a minute, reverse your mind... Ferb.
(Ferb takes out a mirror)
Phineas: (Reading) "The disk of fate drops the boot." The disk of fate?
Lawrence: Oh, it's that coat of arms right there.
Phineas: The Statue! Guys look, the statue's boot is not resting on that podium. And that podium has a giant slot in it. (After he pulls off the coat of arms) Look, it a big penny. Ferb, pay the man.
(Ferb inserts the penny into the slot)
Lawrence: Just like an old iron penny bank. Stand back boys.
(The statues foot rest upon the podium, depressing it, cause the statue to slide away, revealing a large spiraling staircase downward)
Phineas: Wow.
Lawrence: Yes, the Boot Scrapers were renowned for their elaborate spiral staircases. If that Dorcham and Westley Boot Scraper still exists, we'll find it down here.
Man: Not if I, Worthington Dubois, have anything to say about it. (He laughs, evilly)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, this seems to be unplugged. There. (The -inator fires hitting Perry's trap) Oops. Oh, the film melted into … oil. That doesn't make any sense, it's not a Melt-inator. It's a, Oh right. Film is made from some petroleum product, and it made it younger so, I goes it makes some sort of ridiculous sense. (Perry attacks Doofenshmirtz) One last setting and to the De-Age-inator, and it will be ready to fire. (The -inator fires)
Younger Doofenshmirtz: Cool, I'm fourteen years old. Ha, ha, I totally beat you, dude. Now all I got to do is take this DVD to the Film Festival, and then I'll, like, have a lot of power, and stuff. And I'll like– (Perry runs in front of Doofenshmirtz) No way, dude! You're not the boss of me.
Candace: What do you want for the 1965 Northern Llama Rancher's Association commemorative creamer?
Man: I don't know, a buck?
Candace: (Exchanging the various items) Commemorative creamer, clear flugelhorn. Clear Flugelhorn for a baseball stein. Baseball stein for cyclops Santa.
(The three arrive at a large pair of double doors, and enter them.)
Phineas: Cool. Inner temple.
Lawrence: Okay, let's get a move on.
Phineas: Get down Dad!
(Phineas and Ferb tackle Lawrence, saving them from the onslaught of projectiles flying over head)
Lawrence: Cobbler's mallets. Why did it have to be cobbler's mallets?
Phineas: That was close.
Lawrence: Yes, the Boot Scrapers were master craft-
(Phineas, Ferb, and Lawrence fall through a trap door)
Lawrence: The Cavern of Secrets. This entire room was made from materials scraped off the boots of Danville Elders, who were highly creative engineers.
Candace: (Continuing to trade the various items) Battleship hat. Coffee grinder pogo stick. Thankless letters home, evil angel suit.
Lawrence: Oh, blimey.
Phineas: I had no idea there was such a wide variety historical of boot scrapers. Which one is it Dad?
Lawrence: Well, that's the question isn't it. Only one of these can be the true Dorcham and Westley. And no doubt a wrong choice will trigger a nasty booby trap. Boot scrapers were famously vengeful people. This could take every ounce of antiquing knowledge that I possess.
(Lawrence begins looking at the scrapers)
Phineas: You can do it, Dad!
(He continues to stare at them, and eventually reaches for one)
Dubois: (Appearing suddenly, and grabbing the scraper Lawrence was reaching for) At last! A hedgehog, of course. This truly is the Dorcham and Westley Boot Scraper of legend.
Lawrence: But Worthington, there are no hedgehogs in America!
Dubios: What, oh well that's just– (He gets squished by a giant boot)
Phineas: Wow, he chose poorly.
Lawrence: Well, seeing as the place is falling apart anyway. (He grabs all the remaining boot scrapers, and the three run out)
Candace: (Still at it) Pink gorilla suit. Battle of Danville commemorative dentures. A cane with a cobra on it.
Doofenshmirtz: Dude, chill, it's mine. I don't have to give it to you. (As they fight, Doofenshmirtz unlocks the rapid fire, and sends beams of de-aging from his roof) Hey! Quit it. You're pushing me, dude.
(Candace walks to the man selling the Ducky Momo, and show him the baby rattle)
Salesman: You actually got it! Let me see if I can find a box. (A ray from Doofenshmirtz's -inator hits the baby rattle) I don't seem to have a box, oh well. Wait a second! Where's the patina?! This is obviously brand new. It's not an antique. No trade!
Candace: (To the sky) WHY‽
Doofenshmirtz: (to Perry) Dude, you just totally broke my -inator.
(Phineas, Ferb, and Lawrence run back through Boot Scraper's Hall, escaping just in the nick of time)
Lawrence: That was an ever closer one.
Dubois: Not so fast, Fletcher. When I fell, I landed in the ruins of the Hall of the Sandal Scrapers. An order of scrapers far more ancient than your miserable boot scrapers. And with this (Dubois reveals a sandal scraper, and begins transforming onto a much larger ghost) I will become the most powerful antiques collector the world has ever seen.
Ferb: Perhaps next time we should buy new.
Dubois: Prepare to (He gets hit with a green beam) Oh no! My enemies from beyond space!
(A fleet of UFOs arrive)
Phineas: Hey look Ferb, it's Garbog. Hi Garbog!
(Garbog says something, then zapps the three of them into UFOs)
Phineas: This is going to be good. Team Danville, assemble!
Dubois: How dare you! (The fleet unloads upon him) My future wickedness!
(A banner falls down, reading "The End")
Announcer: And that was the winner of this years young filmmakers contest. let's have a hand for the directors, Phineas Flynn and Ferb Fletcher.
(People cheer)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, crud. Can somebody drive me home?
Phineas: Thank you everyone. But we couldn't have done this on our own. We'd like to thank our dad Lawrence Fletcher for spending all afternoon making this movie with us.
Linda: (To Lawrence) I had no idea you were so good with special effects.
Lawrence: Oh yeah, but it was mostly them.
Phineas: And we'd like to introduce the actor responsible our villain to life.
(Dubois walks onstage.)
Dubois: Don't you mean (He tears off the costume, revealing Buford and Baljeet)
Buford and Baljeet: ...actors?
Buford: 'Cause there's two of us.
Phineas: Take a bow guys.
(Buford bows, and sends Baljeet tumbling off his shoulders)
Baljeet: Why is there an orchestra pit in a movie theater?
Doofenshmirtz: Seriously, I need a ride.

End credits
Major Monogram: (Sing a scale) la la la la la la la ♪
(Song: Major Monogram Theme Song)
Major Monogram:♪ He's Major... Monogram! ♪
♪ He... appears on a screen ♪
♪ And... he wears... olive green! ♪
♪ He's Major... Monograaaaam! ♪
Carl: I like the big finish, sir.
Major Monogram: I can do without the sarcasm, Carl.



(Scene opens up showing Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella in front of an Exotic Smoothies truck.)
Vendor: That's one exotic dragon-fruit smoothie for you, (at Baljeet) and one for you!
Phineas: I'm just saying as a non-sequitur, a talking zebra just seems a little.
Isabella: Forced?
Phineas: Yeah! Forced.
Baljeet: Mmm! The sweet taste of an unusual and exotic smoothie!
Buford: You know, this smoothie isn't really unusual or exotic. It's about as exotic as a stay-cation with Aunt Meryl!
Baljeet: But, Buford, your postcard said that she had a pool.
Buford: She has a patio.
Isabella: Tomorrow, we should work on Buford's penmanship.
Baljeet: Actually, most would consider dragon-fruit to be that exotic, indeed. (Buford starts to imitate Baljeet) Known for its dazzling flowers, it is actually the fruit of several... (Sees Buford mocking him) What are you doing? Stop. Stop that. Stop. Stop it. Stop. (Baljeet starts drinking his smoothie, and Buford mocks him as well) Stop that.
Isabella: You know, Buford's kind of right. These smoothies are sort of exotic, but I think we can do better. What do you think, Phineas?
Phineas: What do I think? (Ferb tries to talk, but is halted by Phineas) Don't answer that. Guys, I know what we're going to do today! I wonder what kind of smoothie Perry would like?

(Cuts to the backyard. Perry puts on his fedora and his helmet. He then pulls a tricycle out of the bushes, and begins to ride it. He rings the bells and then goes to an underground tunnel, and through the parking garage. He then goes to the elevator that leads him to his lair. He parks his tricycle by chaining it to the bike racks)
Major Monogram: Come in. Sit down, Agent P. We have a serious problem. It seems that someone, and I'm not saying who, someone has spilled on the couch in the lobby.
Carl: Sir, I..
Major Monogram: A very expensive couch when we bought it in 1985.
Carl: Sir, all I did was turn the cushion over. The stain was already...
Major Monogram: If the responsible party is present...
Carl: Sir, it was Agent M. He spilled a latte in 1990.
Major Monogram: Ugh. We were hoping to get him here a couple of years out of that couch...
Carl: Anywho?
Major Monogram: Anywho, our surveillance operatives have been getting some mixed signals from Doofenshmirtz. He was observed at the Danville Library, checking out books on Eastern Australia and hydrostatic cell fusion. We haven't come up with any ideas about what he's up to...
Carl: Maybe he's trying to recreate Pangaea, sir
Major Monogram: Like I said, we haven't come up with anything yet. So, we need you to get in there, and find out. Good luck, and be careful out there

(Cuts to the backyard with Isabella, Phineas, and Ferb with something covered)
Phineas: Okay, everyone! Ferb and I developed a device that can literally turn any solid into liquid, so we can enjoy all sorts of new and unusual flavors. Isabella?
Isabella: Abracapocus!
(Takes off the blanket and reveals nothing)
Phineas: Wow! That was really impressive!
Isabella: I just got my magic patch. Let's try this again.
(Unveils the device)
Phineas: Behold! The state of the matter transfer device! All right, Buford, is that chicken ready?
Buford: All set.
(Ferb zaps the chicken to a liquid state)
Isabella: I got ya! There you are. Liquid poultry.
Buford: (drinks it) Mmm. Tastes like chicken.
Phineas: I think we need to try something a little more.
Ferb: Foul?
Phineas: Yeah! No! Exotic!

(Cuts to exterior of Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry falls into Doofenshmirtz's traps)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, hello, Perry the Platypus! Over here. No, here. Look a-- Look a little more this way. (Poorly imitates Perry's chatter) What do you think? Huh? I've joined you in the genus Ornithorhynchus. That's right, I am a platypus! (Evil laughter) Yeah, hang on. Let me turn off the dramatic lighting. How did this come to be? I'll tell you, since you didn't ask. After years of being bested by your battles, I decided to fight fire with fire, and in both cases, fire means platypus, and with just means with. It was simple; the best way to beat a platypus was to become a platypus. That way, our skills would be evenly matched. So, after a couple of hours of promising experiments and some intricate designs, I finally created the Platyp-inator! Pretty cool, huh? Now, before I defeat you, I think I should further level the playing field. There, now I'm trapped, too. And go! You're not struggling, I said go. We should both be-- (Perry joins in) Yeah, like that. Okay.

(Cut to the backyard)
Phineas: Isabella, you wanna go next?
Isabella: Why, yes. How about a romantic dinner for two? (Ferb zaps the romantic dinner ) Wanna sip, Phineas?
Phineas: Oh, no, thanks.
Isabella: Oh, okay. I understand. You know, you want to keep yourself open to other drink options. I get it.
Phineas: Actually, I didn't want to say anything in front of anybody, but, it's, I don't like zucchini.
Isabella: Oh.
(Cut to Candace's room)
Candace: And that is why we wear white shoes after Labor Day. And I.. (Sees Phineas and Ferb's invention) Oh, I knew it. Phineas and Ferb. Not very impressive, but suspicious. Stacy, I.. I got to go. Oh, and Happy Birthday! Mom! Mom! Mom!
(Cut to laundry room)
Linda: Oh, laundry. Sometimes, I feel like our first president, because I'm washing a ton. (laughs) Ah, yeah.
Candace: Mom! Mom! Mom! You have to come out to the backyard!
Linda: Oh, hey, Candace. I feel like our first president...
Candace: No time for the stand-up routine, Mom. You've gotta come out to the backyard.
Linda: Okay, I'll be right out.
Candace: HURRY!

(Song: "A Platypus Fight")
♪ Let's go! ♪
♪ The time is now, ♪
♪ They're gonna do their dance, ♪
♪ No room for negotiation. ♪
♪ One's got a hat, ♪
♪ Neither has pants, ♪
♪ But there's bears no further explanation. ♪
♪ I think you know what's gonna go down, ♪
♪ Yeah, there's gonna be a platypus throwdown! ♪
♪ Fight, fight! There's a platypus fight! ♪
♪ It's a fracas, it's a fray, ♪
♪ It's a monotreme melee. ♪
♪ Fight, fight! There's a platypus fight! ♪
♪ If you're watching at home, ♪
♪ There's a seven-second delay. ♪
♪ Fight, fight! There's a platypus fight! ♪
♪ It's a duck-billed duel, ♪
♪ It's a beaver-tailed battle. ♪
♪ Fight, fight! There's a platypus fight! ♪
♪ Gonna smack you so hard that your teeth are gonna rattle... ♪
♪ It's a platypus fight! ♪

(Fades to backyard)
Candace: What is this thing? Some sort of souped-up techno-geek camera? I wonder what it... (Candace zaps herself to liquid) Phineas and Ferb! (A bird bathes in Candace's liquid) No! Get off! Ew! (gargles)
Linda: Well that's funny. I could've sworn she said backyard. Oh well. If anyone needs me, I'll be washing a ton. (laughs)
Phineas: Let's see, we've got horseradish, durians, and turmeric.
Isabella: I've got a mountain yam.
Baljeet: I cannot wait to taste liquified sea salt.
Candace: Hey! Watch where you're steering those sneakers, bub!
(Baljeet screams)
Phineas: Candace? You're a smoothie?
Candace: (Multiple Candace puddles) Phineas, you've got to fix this!
Phineas: That is so cool! Uh, what does it feel like?
Candace: It feels like you're in big trouble!
Phineas: Ferb, we're gonna need some sponges and a bucket!

(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Phew! This whole evenly matched thing is exhausting. How about we take a short break? Do you ever get tired of lugging this big tail around? I mean, sure, it's great for fighting, but it's weird for sitting and stuff. I just figure I'd ask you because you know, you would know. Uh, sugar or agave syrup? (Perry points to agave syrup) Here. I don't know if this is fur or really tiny feathers. I can't tell. It's so warm, but it breathes. Well, back at it, I guess. (Both resume fighting)
♪ Fight, fight ♪
♪ There's a platypus fight ♪
♪ It's a fracas, it's a fray, ♪
♪ it's a mo-- ♪

(Cut to the backyard)
Phineas: Okay, these are the last drops of her.
Candace: (Inside the bucket) Hurry up and change me before that bird comes back.
Phineas: Sure thing, Candace. We reversed the polarity, and it should do the trick. Now, try not to ripple. (Zaps the bucket)
Candace: This does not feel like the reverse of being a bucket of water.
Phineas: Hmm, so it would seem.
Buford: I don't know, I kinda like her like that. She looks like Cand-berry sauce.
Phineas: We gotta get her back into the right shape before we solidify her. And we're gonna need to adjust the contour in.. (Phineas laughs and sighs) Cand-berry sauce.

(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
♪ Fight, fight! There's a platypus fight! ♪
♪ It's a duuck-biiiilleeeed... (slow-mo) ♪

(Back to the backyard)
Phineas: Hang in there, Candace. This mold that Buford brought over should help us put her back together.
Baljeet: Tell me again why you have a life-sized mold of Candace.
Buford: I got life-sized molds of all my friends.
Isabella: I'm not so sure how I feel about that.
Phineas: All set, Candace! Now wait right there.
Candace: (Sarcastically) Ha-ha, very funny.
Phineas: Okay, here we go! (Zaps Candace) Candace, come on out!
Candace: (gasps) I'm me! Glorious me! You did it! You guys are soooooooooooooo... (notices Linda, inhales) ooooooo... busted!

(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, Perry the Platypus, this isn't working. I need to become something stronger than a platypus. Let's see, what's-- what's stronger than a platypus? (Gasps) Two platypuses, that's it! I've got just the thing right over here. (Runs to the roof to pull out a sheet covering the -inator to reveal it) Behold! My Double-inator!

(Cut to the kitchen)
Linda: There, nice and clean. Ha! Now we're both a couple of good-looking dishes. Bah-da-da-duh-duh! Thank You! I'll be here all...
Candace: Mom! Mom! Mom!
Linda: Candace, watch this. I was just looking at this plate, and I said, "There, nice and..."
Candace: Not right now! (Candace grabs her mom's hand and drags her to the backyard)
Linda: Candace, my hands are wet.

(Back to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: I'll just shoot myself with this baby, and then I will have the advantage because there will be two of me.. (Perry attacks Doofapus, which sets off the Double-inator, hitting Phineas and Ferb's invention, making it liquify)
Phineas: Anyone else see that?
Doofenshmirtz: Wonder what that hit. Whatever that is, there's two of them now. Soon there's gonna be two of me, and then nothing can defeat me! Except maybe a bigger platypus made out of metal. Yeah, like that. (grunts) Curse you, Perry the Platypus! Even though I'm also a platypus at this point, and, uh... I hope this wears off soon. The novelty has worn thin.

(Back to the backyard)
Candace: Come on, come on, come on!
Phineas: Oh, hi, Mom!
Candace: I'm sorry Mom, but you've got to see this. Feast your eyes on... (looks and noticed the machine disappeared. Her mood changes) ...puddles.
Linda: Yeah, I saw 'em earlier.
Candace: But, Mom, they had a machine that would turn things into smoothies, and...
Linda: I didn't see it, Candace. (Walks Candace with her)
Candace: And Buford had a mold, of me!
(Perry enters and switches to pet mode)
Linda: (taking Candace inside) Buford's got molds of all of us, Candace.
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry!
(Perry chatters)

(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, well. I guess at least I'm back to normal.
Doofenshmirtz's clone: Me, too!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, good for you... (Exclaims)



(Scene starts up in the Flynn-Fletcher garage)
Isabella: Hi, Phineas! What'cha makin'?
Buford: Uh, sawdust machine?
Phineas: Nope. Take a look.
(Isabella looks through the microscope. From the microscope's view, several lemon yellow cube like creatures with poles and robot faces are shown.)
Isabella: Oh, they're adorable! What are they?
Phineas: They're nano-bots!
Baljeet: Nano-bots? Can they be programmed?
Phineas: Sure, they can link up in virtually infinite configurations to make just about anything you can imagine.
Buford: So, impress me.
Phineas: Okay.
(Phineas uses the nano-bots to create the words "HELLO!" and an instrumental version of Phineas and Ferb Theme plays)
Buford: Yeah, yeah, main title, whatever. But I think I see the potential. Like, you could use them to make a giant birthday paddle.
Baljeet: Or a telescope.
Buford: Or a giant birthday paddle and a regular sized cheese grater.
Isabella: Or a scratching post for... HEY!
Phineas: I'm way ahead of you Isabella.
(Phineas uses the nano-bots to make the catchphrase "Where's Perry?")

(Scene shifts to the backyard where Perry goes through the gate door then a chute that leads him to the Better Noodle Restaurant in Shanghai)
(Cut to the noodle house)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. Welcome to the best noodle house in Shanghai.
(Perry chatters)
Yeah, I know it's a long haul, but the local take-out just wasn't cutting it for my sophisticated palate. I just wanna tell you what Doof is up to, but I have no idea. I've been on the plane for 17 hours, and they don't let you use your cell phones till you land, and then I realized I didn't have international coverage, so... Anyway, you should probably get back to Danville, and check on him, just in case. Don't worry, I'll bring you back some white rice and soy sauce.

(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher home)
Phineas: All right gang, let's get techno-mimetic. (pause) Let's use technology to mimic...
Buford: Why you gotta talk like that?
Phineas: You're right. Nano-bots, please.
Candace: What are you doing?
Phineas: We're making a car.
(Baljeet and Isabella laughs after Phineas zaps it)
Buford: Buford loves that!
Isabella: That's awesome!
Buford: Helicopter! Helicopter! (Phineas zaps the nano-bots and makes a helicopter) Yeah!
Isabella: Yeah!
Buford: Yes! Bigger!
Phineas: Sure! We'll just need to whip up some more nano-bots!
Candace: Mom! Mom! Mom, the boys! Garage! look!
Linda: Oh, they're making little models. How cute!
Candace: You don't understand! It was nothing, and then it was flying and.. They made it out of dust!
Linda: Oh, Candace, you're not even trying.
Candace: Okay, I need more information.

(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Norm: Welcome, Perry the Platypus. Would you like a muffin? They're fresh and yummy! Muffins stay warmest here, close to my heart. You must be here to see Dr. Doofenshmirtz! (Perry chatters) I'm sorry he's not in right... (beeping) Whoops, incoming message.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, hello, Perry the Platypus! Sorry I couldn't be there to capture you personally. I was called in for jury duty. But no big deal, I've got the perfect "get out of jury duty free" card! (Perry chatters) Relax, it's totally legit. Meanwhile, I'm leaving Norm in charge, the big lump. Hey, try to make yourself useful, Norm! Would it kill you to show some initiative?
Norm: Show some initiative? You never asked me to do that before.
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, well, I'm out of your blast radius today, so surprise me, why don't you? Try not to be a complete disappointment.
Baliff: DOOFENSHMIRTZ!
Doofenshmirtz: Present!
Norm: Please enjoy your muffin! (Muffin traps Perry) Sorry for the inconvenience, Perry the Platypus. I'm showing initiative. When I help Dr. D take over the Tri-State Area, he will be so proud of me! Maybe then he will take me out for a game of catch! But how to do it? Dr. Doofenshmirtz makes complicated inventions which invariably fail. But I'm more results-oriented, so I'll just make a weapon!

(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher home)
(Candace stands beside the door frame of the door to the garage)
Candace: Okay. Commence Operation Concisely State What The Heck Is Going On Around Here. Notepad: check! Ducky Momo 15th Anniversary Happy Pencil: check! Keen eye and abominable will to bust: check!
(Cut to the garage)
Phineas: Okay, guys. Get ready for some Nano-bot morphing action!
(Quirky Worky Song plays)
(Phineas zaps the Nano-bots and makes a faucet)
Buford: Wow!
Baljeet: Awesome!
(Phineas zaps the Nano-bots and makes a gingerbread man and then a light bulb)
Isabella: Great idea!
(Phineas zaps the Nano-bots and makes a rowboat, a baseball cap, and the head of a pig)
Buford:Hahaha, pig face.    
(Candace writes on her notepad and runs to the living room where Linda is)
Candace: MOM! MOM! Phineas and Ferb are making a giant tape dispenser, but it's also a faucet, and a rowboat, a baseball hat, and gingerbread man with a fist for a head, and a pig face --
Linda: Stop. Okay, your stories are always full of holes, but it's usually just one story. Here, let me demonstrate. I'll be the "Candace" and you will be the "beautiful mother". (Clears throat)
(Imitating Candace) Mom, Phineas and Ferb have brought Genghis Khan back from the past and he's teaching the neighbors to throw hatchets from horseback. (Normal voice) You see? One story.
Candace: (long pause) They'll probably do that, you know.

(Scene shifts to the courtroom)
Judge: Juror number 9, state your occupation.
Juror number 9: I'm between jobs at the moment.
Doofenshmirtz: Ha! You'll never get out of jury duty with that story!
Judge: Dismissed!
Juror number 9: Man! I could've used this on my resume.
Judge: Juror number 10!
Doofenshmirtz: My name is Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz. My occupation..(giggles)...evil scientist!
Judge: Mad scientist!?
Doofenshmirtz: (angrily) No. No. No, not mad scientist! I'm not angry. Evil scientist. There's a difference...
Judge: Hold on, number 10. I think your background might lend a unique perspective to the case at hand. The State vs. Dr. Diminutive!
Dr. Diminutive: I didn't do it!
Doofenshmirtz: Dr. Diminutive!
Dr. Diminutive: Doofenshmirtz, it's your fault that I'm here!
Judge: (Judge bangs gavel on bench) Order!
Dr. Diminutive: He's the one who invented the Schmaltz-inator. Not me. I merely stole... I mean borrowed his device, and unleashed it's awesome power, unwittingly that is, upon the airwaves (Dr.Diminutive's lawyer slaps his face in embarrassment).
Judge: Do you two know each other?
Doofenshmirtz: I have never seen him before in my life.
Dr. Diminutive: He lies! I have proof. The 2007 L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. pudding review.
Doofenshmirtz: Why would you carry that in your wallet? Why would he carry that in his wallet?
Judge: Order! Order!
Doofenshmirtz: Would somebody please tell me why he would carry that in his wallet!?

(Scene shifts to Flynn-Fletcher home)
Candace: Okay, one story. And that one story is...
(Baljeet and the others drive out of the garage in cars made from the Nano-bots)
Candace: Cars! (Phineas's car transforms into a jet) Planes! (Baljeet's car transforms into a UFO) Space ships! Crud!!!

(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
Norm: (Carrying a blowtorch and wearing a welding helmet) At last, my ultimate weapon is complete. Would you like to see it?
(Perry chatters)
Norm: Get ready for a surprise! It's me! Dr. D will be so proud!!! Assuming he survives the cataclysm. (flies away from Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.) Have a nice day!
(Perry uses the blowtorch to free himself from the trap)
(Cut to Norm flying above the city; Perry battles Norm throughout the song)
(Song: Weaponry)
Norm: ♪ La, la, la, la ♪
♪ Weaponry ♪
♪ It's the way to get it done ♪
♪ Weaponry ♪
♪ It's effective and it's fun! ♪
♪ If you want to make them fall on bended knee at your command ♪
♪ Bow their heads and swear that you're the leader of the land ♪
♪ State your wishes in a language they all understand ♪
♪ With weaponry ♪
♪ That's the plan! ♪
♪ If power's on your shopping list ♪
♪ Then use the elbow and the fist, ♪
♪ Pummel 'em until they get the gist ♪
♪ Just make an example of ♪
♪ Representative sample of ♪
♪ And most of them will not be missed ♪
♪ You can beat 'em up by any means ♪
♪ Or blow them all to smithereens! ♪
♪ A favorite of this sentient machine ♪
♪ Never mind the fatalities ♪
♪ Where there's municipalities ♪
♪ To crush a set of with the threat of ♪
♪ Weaponry ♪
♪ Will inspire Dr. D, ♪
♪ Weaponry ♪
♪ To have confidence in me! ♪
♪ If I'm gonna be a conqueror and win my father's love ♪
♪ I'll take it to the people with the eagle, not the dove ♪
♪ If there's one thing that obedience is symptomatic of ♪
♪ It's W-E-A-P-O-N-R-Y: ♪
♪ Weaponry! ♪
♪ From above! ♪
(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz and Diminutive in prison)
(Dr. Diminutive plays a harmonica)
Doofenshmirtz: I'm just saying we only looked happy because we were singing. It's not a true representation of our relationship.
Norm: (In a distance from outside of the prison) Citizens of downtown Danville...
(Norm levitating in the sky above the city)
Norm: Pardon me for interrupting. You have two minutes to relinquish your city to me or see it utterly destroyed. Thank you for your cooperation.
Woman: What could we do?
Man: Utterly destroyed? That's like more than regular destroyed.
Man #2: But I just got a reservation at that new restaurant!
Woman #2: He was so jaunty when he was singing.
(Doofenshmirtz looking up at Norm from the window in his prison cell)
Doofenshmirtz: What? Weapons!? (angrily) Oh brilliant! Like nobody ever thought of that. I mean, you destroy the Tri-State Area and what are you ruler of? Rubble! And where's the panache? The je ne sais quoi?
Dr. Diminutive: He's an amateur.
Doofenshmirtz: I'm not talking to YOU!!!
(Scene shifts to Perry flying over the city skyline on his parachute)
(Perry flies down over to the Flynn-Fletcher garage and zaps the Nano-bots)

(Cut to Phineas and Ferb)
(Phineas and his friends drive down the street in cars made from Nano-bots and drives into their backyard)
(In the living room, Candace looks at Phineas and the others outside of the window and runs outside to the backyard)

(Norm levitating above the city)
Norm: Attention Danville, while your nervous scurrying is gratifying, I must inform you that you have one minute to...
(Perry creates the hind legs of a horse with the Nano-bots and uses them to kick Norm in the face)
Norm: (as he is being kicked in the face) Surrender!!!
(Perry creates a plane and flies over to Norm)
Norm: This has been delightful Perry, but I have a schedule to keep! (Fires a blast from one of his weapons at Perry)
(Perry creates a construction pipe and shoots the lethal blast from the weapon back at Norm)
(Norm catches the blast in his hands)
Norm: This is what I dreamed it would be like with Dr. D! Catch!!!
(Perry creates a baseball bat and hits the blast sending it into space)
(The blast from the weapon explodes over the Earth's atmosphere in outer space)
Norm: Thank you, Perry. That was a deeply satisfying, emotional experience. And a well timed one coming only thirty seconds before you are destroyed along with the rest of Danville. A simple matter when you employ weapons and not one of those foolish inators. (beeping) Incoming message...
Doofenshmirtz: Hey!!! Who are you calling foolish you ingrate! Boy, one successful bit for tri-state area conquest and suddenly he's full of attitude! I guess I should've expected that from a guy with a SQUIRREL FOR A HEART!!!
Norm: Deep down he really likes me.
(Perry creates a giant acorn with the Nano-bots)
Norm: A giant acorn? How is that supposed to... (the squirrel operating Norm jumps out of him and leaps for the acorn) Oh! I see what you had in mind. Well played sir. (Norm winds down and falls down to the ground) Thank you for game of Catch. (Norm appears to explode before even hitting the ground)

(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher garage)
Candace: So, you guys done changing things up around here?
Phineas: Looks like it. We left the Nano-bot programmer here and now it's gone.
Candace: So, giant glowing cars forever? And that's your story?
Phineas: And we're sticking to it...apparently.
Candace: Good! (at Linda) MOM! MOM! MOM! Heeheeheeheehee...

(Scene shifts to Danville Park)
(Perry takes the giant acorn he made from the Nano-bots and sets it down on the ground in front of the squirrel. He then salutes and uses his jet-pack to fly away. The Nano-bot programmer falls down on the ground in front of the squirrel.)

(Scene shifts to Flynn-Fletcher garage)
Linda: (has her head turned) Pie's on the table!
Candace: (With her eyes closed) Look! (Leans back on one of the cars)
(Squirrel steps on the Nano-bot programmer causing the cars to disintegrate)
Candace: (Falls backward as the car disintegrates) This is a car, mom! It just needs to...uh...uh...uh...see? (puts a clump of the Nano-bots in her hand) Vroom vroom! Okay. I'll admit, this does make me look a little bit...you know...crazy.
Linda: (Walks back inside to the kitchen) Who wants ice cream with that?

(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz and Diminutive in prison)
(Dr. Diminutive plays harmonica)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, any second now something will explode on me and then we can go home. Yep, any second now.
(Dr. Diminutive continues playing harmonica)
Doofenshmirtz: Aaannny second.
(Dr. Diminutive continues playing harmonica)
Doofenshmirtz: Would you quit with the harmonica!?

End Credits
(Song: Weaponry)
♪ You can beat 'em up by any means ♪
♪ To blow them all to smithereens ♪
♪ The favorite of the sentient machine ♪
♪ There's a brand new season we're makin'. ♪
♪ Never mind the fatalities ♪
♪ Where there's municipalities ♪
♪ To crush a set of with the threat of ♪
♪ Weaponry... ♪



Part I
(Scene opens up at the Danville International Airport where Linda, Lawrence, Betty Jo, Grandpa Clyde, Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Buford, Baljeet, and Perry are waiting for the flight to Africa to depart.)
Linda: Mom, don't forget to water the plants. We'll be back before you know it.
Betty Jo: It's so exciting! I remember our trip to Africa.
Grandpa Clyde: That was Arkansas.
Betty Jo: Oh, that's right, but you have fun in Africa.
Lawrence: Ah, my university chummy has been trying to get us to visit his animal research station for years now.
Phineas: I bet Perry's looking forward to meeting all the wild animals.
(Perry's wrist communicator beeps)
Major Monogram: Oh, there you are, Agent P. We've intercepted a text from Doofenshmirtz and we need you. I'm sorry, Agent P. You know we wouldn't do this if it weren't an emergency. I'm afraid you're going to have to miss your family vacation. Use Host Escape Diversion Technique B-17.
(Perry pretends that he is sick)
Phineas: Hey! You okay, boy? Oh, no, I think he's sick.
Linda: Oh, he doesn't sound well enough to travel, hon. Maybe we should leave him at home.
Man: Sorry, kids, your Mom's right. The airline forbids transport of animals who are ill.
Phineas: Are you a pilot?
Man: No, I'm a dentist. I just like wearing these hats.
Lawrence: The dentist is right, boys. Your mother is right.
Phineas: You know, if Perry can't go, then Ferb and I will stay home with him.
Betty Jo: Don't be silly, sweetie. You enjoy your trip. Grandpa and I will take good care of him.
Airline Announcer: Flight 4311 now boarding.
Phineas: ...Well, okay. We're sure going to miss you, little fella. Feel better soon. Eat all your food and get plenty of rest. We'll see you in no time.
(Candace's cellphone rings)
Candace: Hey.
Stacy: Hey, world traveler! Ready to go?
Candace: No. Jeremy said he would see me off, but he's not here yet.
Stacy: Oh, I'm sure he's got a perfectly good reason.
Candace: But he said he had something to tell me...
Airline Announcer: (In the background) Final call for Flight 4311!
Candace:...something important.
Airline announcer: Final call for Flight 4311!
Candace: (Talking to an airline personnel, with a bull horn announcing the final call) I heard ya'.
Airline Personnel: Well!
(The airplane is on the tarmac, waiting for clearance to take-off)
Linda: I still can't believe you got dinner reservations at Chez Afrique. The travel guide says it's the top romantic destination restaurant. Five star service. Panoramic views....
Lawrence: Well, I'm looking at the most amazing view right now.
Linda: Oh, honey...
Lawrence: No, no, really. Look how many suitcases they have in that tiny truck.
Linda: Ooh, that is amazing.
Buford: Move over.
Baljeet: But I got here first. Why should I sit in the middle seat...
(Buford picks Baljeet up, and places him in the middle seat next to Isabella who has the other isle seat.)
Buford: There's your reason.
Baljeet: You know, you can not solve every with your muscles. Sometimes you need brains.
Buford: Yeah, like for dinner. Little bit of garlic, a little bit of butter, brains are delicious.
Phineas: (sighs dejectedly) Perry would have loved sitting on the tarmac for no reason. (sighs again) And he would have loved this visual gag, too. (referring to Ferb wearing five neck pillows)
Flight Attendant: (to Isabella) Couldn't help but notice your sash. I was a Fireside Girl myself. Enjoy your complimentary orange juice.
Isabella: Thanks. (to Buford and Baljeet) Gentlemen.
Baljeet: Networking is everything.
Isabella: Did you know that African chapter of the Fireside Girls has its own special edition survival patches? (Listing some of the patches) "Identifying fauna and flora." Easy. "Finding water." Child's play. And, "eating a grub"?
Buford: Little bit of garlic, a little bit a butter...
Baljeet: Do not worry, Isabella. You do not have to have every patch.
Isabella: I don't have to have every...! Do you even hear the words coming out of your mouth?
Candace: (chuckles) Jeremy and I are cool. Stacy's right. I mean there's a good reason why he didn't show up. And he probably want's to tell me he wants us to... Start wearing matching sweaters or something cute like that. (chuckles) Yeah, yeah. (Her cellphone rings) It's him! Jeremy? Hello? Jeremy? You wanted to tell me somethin- Oh, we got cut off.
Flight Attendant: Miss, we're taking off. Please hang up your phone.
Candace: But I need to call my boyfriend back. He has something important to tell me.
Flight Attendant: Not until we land, I'm afraid.
Candace: How long is this flight?
Flight Attendant: Eighteen hours.
Candace: Ugh, eighteen hours, with no phone.
(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Betty Jo: Make sure he's nice and comfortable, Clyde. (Perry coughs and sneezes) What do you say when a platypus sneezes?
Grandpa Clyde: I'll go check my monotreme manners book.
Betty Jo: You have a book on monotreme manners?
Grandpa Clyde: You don't know everything about me.
(Perry springs up, and makes an imitation of himself with a tissue box, then sneaks to his lair via an old radiator.)

Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. It turns out the text we intercepted from Doofenshmirtz didn't actually warrant you missing your family vacation. My bad. But in my defense, his text was written in all caps, but upon farther investigation, it looks as though he just hit the caps lock by mistake. Anyway, he's up to something. Go check it out.

(Scene shifts to the airport in Africa)
Airport Announcer: Jambo and welcome to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. (The announcement continues to go on in Swahili)
(A man goes to grab Candace who just came out of the luggage chute, in the fetal position, clutching her cell phone.)
Woman: No, dear, our daughter's blond. Here she is!
Daughter: Eighteen hours with no texting.
Phineas: (Referring to Candace) This one's ours.
Lawrence: Welcome to Africa, Candace.
(Candace dials a phone number)
Operator: We're sorry. Your call cannot be completed.
Candace: "Cannot be completed!" What is that?
Baljeet: Do you have an international calling card?
Candace: Oh, no I don't. Give me yours.
Baljeet: I do not have one.
Buford: I got a card. (He pulls out a stack of cards) Pick a card, any card.
Candace: Don't magic me. This is serious.
Buford: Who's magicin'? I'm just givin' away cards.
Baljeet: May I have one?
Buford: No.
Ignatius: Hairy Larry.
Lawrence: Hello, old friend.
Ignatius: How are you?
Linda: Hairy Larry?
Lawrence: Well, you know how there are no photographs of me between 1976 to 1979?
Linda: Yeah.
Lawrence: Well, there you are. (to Ignatius) Um, I'd like you to me my wife Linda, and our kids and their friends. Everyone, this is Ignatius Ukareamü, my old college chum.
Candace: Hey, Iggy. How are ya'?
Ignatius: Well, hello, young lady, I have heard-
Candace: So you got a phone at that research station of yours?
Linda: Candace...
Ignatius: Ahh, teenagers are teenagers anywhere in the world.
Lawrence: Of course, they have a phone, Candace. Africa isn't as primitive as you think.
Ignatius: Your father's right. Now come on, the giraffe is waiting outside. ...I kid you.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated (sped up) ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (Speaking rapidly) Ah, Perry the Platypus! Come in, get trapped,... (A pair of mechanical arms grabs hold of Perry) ...listen to my back-story. When I was a child, I grew flabby, which made me want to make the Fitness-Equipment-Lock-inator. Bum bum bum. I just run on this treadmill, and out comes a sonic beam that locks every other piece of fitness equipment in the Tri-State Area. Blah, blah, blah. Everyone's fat and tired. I sprint into city hall and take over. (Perry easily pulls off the cuffs that were restraining him.) No! Perry the Platypus, don't do it. Don't push this self-destruct button. This one right here... (Doofenshmirtz presses the button, and the -inator blows up) Oopsie daisies! Pushed it myself. Grr. Boo. Hiss. That's right, I'm a loser. Alright, go on now, you won fair and square. (Perry leaves) Curse you, Perry the... and he's gone. Haha, I can't believe he fell for that decoy -inator. Norm?
Norm: Always a pleasure to see your sooty face, sir.
Doofenshmirtz: Ha-ah-ha! Perry the Platypus is out of the picture. I'm Perry-free for the rest of the day. I'm sans-Perry. I am platypus-less. And now, because I still need to get it out of my system, behold! The Ultimate-Evil-inator! Isn't it ugly? You see Norm, it occurred to me that fighting underlings like Perry the Platypus is a waste of time. Why not go straight to the top? Why not take out the big boss?
Norm: Major Monogram?
Doofenshmirtz: Why not choke off the wellspring from which all OWCA goodness-
Norm: Major Monogram?
Doofenshmirtz: Let me just say it, will you? Ugh, you know, Perry the Platypus never interrupts me like this. Just saying. -From which all OWCA goodness flows, Major Monogram. There, see? See? You ruined it. You ruin everything. Just like I always say. Anyway, with this I'll blast Major Monogram, turning him evil! And then he'll, you know, join me as my sidekick. And give me access to the OWCA's vast computer network. Thus assuring my Tri-State Area domination. Every afternoon at this time, Major Monogram goes up to the OWCA's roof to sunbathe. (Doofenshmirtz fires the -inator, bouncing it off a satellite on a direct course for the OWCA headquarters.)
(On top of the OWCA's roof, Major Monogram is examining his uvula, while Carl is grilling)
Major Monogram: Hey, Carl, does my uvula look unusually large to you? (He turns his mirror towards Carl. Just as the ray was to hit him, it bounces off, and hits Carl.)
Carl: Meap.
Doofenshmirtz: (Laughing evilly) My neighbor's cat is totally shredding her drapes again. Too bad I can't see the OWCA from here. But it should be over by now. Pack up the -inators, Norm. Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated has a new headquarters!
Norm: Packing, sir.
Doofenshmirtz: Remember, lift with your legs.

(Scene shifts to the research station)
Ignatius: Welcome to the research station. (He helps the kids out of the truck)
Isabella: Thank you.
Phineas: Hey, Mr. Ukareamü, what's over there?
Ignatius: Scrap metal, power tools, and spare parts left over from building the station.
Phineas: You had me at "scrap."
Ferb: You had me at "scra-."
Buford: So when are we going on safari?
Ignatius: We just need to refuel the truck, and we will be on our way.
Baljeet: Uh, can you point me to the bathroom?
Ignatius: Young man, there is a bush over there with your name on it.
Baljeet: My name? Really? How did it... Oh, you mean that figuratively.
Candace: Phone! Phone! Do you have a phone?
Worker: Well, I do have one, but the cell towers are down for maintenance.
Candace: Ugh. (A monkey pretends to use a banana as a phone) Does that banana have international coverage?
Ignatius: Alright, everyone, load up. We are going on a safari.
(Song: "On the Savannah")
♪ Nine happy campers on the savannah, ♪
♪ Across the East African rift,♪
♪ Give the baboon a big banana ♪
♪ And don't cheat the cheetah, if you get my drift. ♪
♪ Some sleep in the daylight ♪
♪ And then they hunt by night, ♪
♪ Not a single traffic light, ♪
♪ Not a fence in sight ♪
♪ And I'm feeling all right. ♪
♪ On the savannah. ♪
♪ Sailing through the seas of velvety pelt, ♪
♪ There's a funky little hippo on the prowl, ♪
♪ Put on your safety belt and block your nose, ♪
♪ That's how we roll. ♪
♪ I'm most struck by the waterbuck, ♪
♪ You're compelled by the gazelle, ♪
♪ Let's have a feast with the wildebeest, ♪
♪ Better keep your eye on the sleeping lion, ♪
♪ Gonna be polite, or they just might bite, ♪
♪ Still we're feeling all right. ♪
♪ On the savannah. ♪
♪ On the savannah! ♪
Ignatius: And this, everyone is the uncharted gorge. They call it Haijulikani Wadi.
Phineas: That's beautiful. What's it mean?
Ignatius: Uncharted gorge.
Ferb: Wow, they really nailed that name.
Ignatius: In order to get down there, you would need a highly unconventional vehicle.
Phineas: A highly unconventional vehicle? Ferb, I know what were going to do today.
Ignatius: Alright, everyone, back on the truck.
(Song: "On the Savannah" (instrumental))
Ignatius: (Back at the camp) And that is why there are no kangaroos in Africa, Buford.
Buford: Oh, man!
Linda: Let's give Iggy a big hand for this marvelous tour.
Isabella: Woo hoo, that was great.
Phineas: Thank you. That was great.
Ignatius: You are quite welcome. You folks relax and enjoy the camp. I have to muck out Kalama's pen. It is not all glamor.
Phineas: Mr. Ukareamü? Ferb and I were wondering if we could use some of your scrap metal to make a highly unconventional vehicle.
Ignatius: Help yourselves, boys.
Phineas: Thanks.
Ignatius: Such imagination.
Lawrence: Well, dear, it looks like everyone's found something to do, and Chez Afrique dinner reservation's in an hour.
Linda: I can't wait. I'm Chez Ah-freaking out.
Lawrence: Oh, good one.

(Scene shifts to the OWCA headquarters)
Major Monogram: Doofenshmirtz? What are you doing here? Did you finally come here to surrender?
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, right, Francis. Wanna give me a hand with these boxes?
Major Monogram: I! I will do no such thing.
Doofenshmirtz: Feels good doesn't it? Being evil, huh?
Major Monogram: What are you talking about? I'm good.
Doofenshmirtz: Good and evil, wink wink.
Major Monogram: Why are you winking? And you know you don't have to say "wink" when you wink.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, come on, Francis, you've been zapped by my Ultimate-Evil-inator. I mean, if it didn't hit you, then who did it hit?
(A large kibble comes down and traps them)
Carl: (He comes walking in stroking a skull in his hand) Looks like I got two for one. I'm going to take over the Tri-State Area, and with my administrators access to OWCA's supercomputer, and intimate knowledge of proper photocopying techniques, I'm just the unpaid stooge to do it.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, you know what? I think maybe it hit him.
Major Monogram: Ya' think?
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, but whose skull is he caressing?

Part II
(Back in Africa...)
Isabella: Wow, that was fun. Thank you for teaching me the Adumu.
(Song: "Izzy's Got the Frizzies" (Instrumental))
Adumu Teacher: And thank you for teaching us the Izzy's Got the Frizzies.
Isabella: My pleasure, Sankei. Well, I should get back to the research center.
Sankei: Goodbye and good luck with that whole grub thing.
Isabella: Thanks. (She walks off)
Sankei: Eat grubs. Yuck, right?
Adumu Teacher 2: I don't remember having to do that when I was a Fireside Girl.
Isabella: What'cha doin?
Phineas: Figuring out which animal attributes to give to our highly unconventional vehicle.
Isabella: Sounds cool. What'd ya have in mind?
(Song: "Highly Unconventional Vehicle")
Phineas: ♪ We need a cheetah's muscle so we can hustle ♪
♪ And a couple big gorilla hands. ♪
Buford: For climbing!
Phineas: ♪ Hope your seat belt's fastened, 'cause the motor's been fashioned ♪
♪ After baboon adrenal glands. ♪
♪ We got a rhino's horn in case we run into trouble, ♪
♪ A big giraffe neck so our reach can double, ♪
♪ The tail was gonna be a snake, I'm glad we used pencil ♪
♪ 'Cause a monkey's tail will give us something more prehensile... ♪
♪ It's a highly unconventional vehicle, ♪
♪ It doesn't have wheels or a carburetor, ♪
♪ It doesn't have a windshield, it doesn't have wings, ♪
♪ It doesn't have a heater, but we're at the equator, ♪
♪ So I guess that's not so apropos ♪
♪ 'Cause it wouldn't need a heater even if it wasn't such a... ♪
♪ Highly unconventional vehicle (highly unconventional vehicle), ♪
♪ It's a highly unconventional vehicle (highly unconventional vehicle), ♪
♪ It's a highly unconventional vehicle! ♪
Yeah!
(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher household)
Betty Jo: Oh, Perry, it's a shame you couldn't go to Arkansas with the boys. Lucky for you, you don't know what your missing.
(Perry takes out a picture of Phineas and Ferb and looks at it sadly)

(At the OWCA headquarters, Doofenshmirtz and Monogram are now locked in prison cells.)
Doofenshmirtz: But my intelligence specifically said that you would be sunbathing, it never mentioned an intern.
Major Monogram: That's because he's not officially an employee, he's unpaid.
Doofenshmirtz: You don't pay him?
Major Monogram: He gets college credit.
Doofenshmirtz: Are you sure you're not evil?
Major Monogram: Carl! You can't keep us cooped up in here. Though the self-serve smoothie machine is a welcome diversion.
Carl: I'm evil, not uncivilized. Did you try the Madagascar chocolate?
Doofenshmirtz: Mmm, you can really taste the Madagascar.
Major Monogram: Carl, you're a solid B+ student with a promising future. What could you possibly have to gain from all this?
Carl: What could I have to gain? Let me tell you, old man.
(Song: "Evil for Extra Credit")
Carl: ♪ I used to put up with too much aggravation ♪
♪ But take a look at me now, ♪
♪ I got a new vocation, ♪
♪ You heard it here first ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm the one who said it, ♪
♪ Yeah, I'm evil... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: He's evil!
Carl: ♪ I'm evil for extra credit! ♪
♪ If you're looking for trouble ♪
♪ Well, I think you've found it. ♪
♪ I park wherever I want ♪
♪ I dare you to impound it. ♪
♪ If I'm losing a video game ♪
♪ I just reset it ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm evil... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: He's evil!
Carl: ♪ I'm evil for extra credit, yeah ♪
♪ That's right, ♪
I'm evil for extra credit!
Tell 'em all about it, girls!
Backup Female Singers: ♪ He'll do anything for good grades. ♪
Carl: You know I will!
Backup Female Singers: ♪ He's an evil jack of all trades. ♪
Carl: I do it all!
Backup Female Singers: ♪ You want badness? Then he's got it in spades. ♪
Carl: I got a full deck ladies.
Backup Female Singers: ♪ Looks so good in leather and shades. ♪
Carl: ♪ You heard it here first, 'cause I'm the one who said it ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm evil. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: He's evil!
Carl: ♪ I'm evil for extra credit. ♪
♪ I'm evil for extra credit! ♪
Major Monogram: (scoffs) You may have some cleverly concealed singing chops, but to me, you'll always be an unpaid intern.
Carl: Drink your smoothie, mustache man. (At Doofenshmirtz) And you, go unload my -inators.
Doofenshmirtz: Actually, I uh, think those -inators kinda belong to..-
Carl: Quiet, intern!
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, paid intern.
Carl: No, that's not how we do things around here.
Major Monogram: (After spotting a large box of straws) Hmm, that gives me an idea. And this time, a good idea. Not like the one I had about the-

Linda: Wow, this restaurant is really out of the way. I bet you can see the entire savannah from up there.
Maitre D: ...And tonight our chef is making his signature dish, which The Culinary League of France calls, "Wildebeest Under Glass".
Linda and Lawrence: Ooh!
(Scene shifts to the research center)
Candace: Telephone? Telephone? Telephone? I'll never know what Jeremy wants to tell me. This whole continent hates me. That lion, those two circus clowns in the ultra-light, the mysterious object under this tarp. (removes the tarp to reveal...) Telephone! Big, weird, wind-up telephone. (Reading) "For best reception place unit in high location with unobstructed views." (begins to drag the telephone towards a tree) Heeheeheeheehee, heeheehee.

(Doofenshmirtz wheels in an -inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, man; you know, I made a Move-A-Bunch-Of-Inators-inator at one point. This would have been really good time to use it. I don't know how that slipped my min-
Carl: Enough of you mindless prattle, minion! Show me my -inators!
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, okay, sheesh! Testy. First up is the Disintegrator-inator...
Carl: Weak.
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, uh, then we also have the Galaxy-inator, which...
Carl: Weak.
Doofenshmirtz: The Derezz-inator?
Carl: Weak.
Doofenshmirtz: The Overhang-inat...
Carl: Weak.
Doofenshmirtz: The Upper-decker...
Carl: Weak.
Doofenshmirtz: The Pickle-Slicer...
Carl: Weak.
Doofenshmirtz: The Stand-And...
Carl: Weak.
Doofenshmirtz: The Boar...
Carl: Weak.
Doofenshmirtz: The...
Carl: Weak.
Doofenshmirtz: The...
Carl: Weak.
Doofenshmirtz: (Inhales)
Carl: Weak.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, come on! I was just inhaling.
(Through Perry's wrist communicator)
Major Monogram: Agent P! Something terrible has happened. Listen carefully; these straws are about to collapse like a flimsy...
(The straws collapse cutting off communication)
Major Monogram: Oh, I was going to say "noodle."

(High up in a tree, Candace is trying to place a phone call.)
Candace: Yes, Danville, U.S.A. D-A-N-V- ...Yeah, D, like in Dantible Varumbie. (The monkey reaches for the phone) I'll only be a minute.

(At the OWCA headquarters, Perry climbs through the vents to the paw print scanner.)
Computer Voice: Biometric scan accepted, security system disabled.
Major Monogram: Agent P! Over here! Oh, good; you got my message. There's no time to lose we have to...
(A container falls from above trapping Perry)
Carl: Very nice, verrrrry nice.
Major Monogram: Carl, you slow clapping fiend!
Carl: I needed Agent P out of the way, so I left you those drinking straws.
Major Monogram: You realize you could have just called him yourself, you do work here.
Carl: I'm over my minutes. But, now, with the boundless power of the mighty OWCA computer, I will bring the Tri-State Area to its knees! I will stop the power stations, de-synchronize all the traffic lights, and yeah! I'll have a vast army of interns do my bidding, each one of them paid!
Major Monogram: You're mad!
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, cool it, man. I think I'm getting a raise. Ooh, ooh, you should give the operation a name, like "Operation: Shared Evil".
Carl: Out!
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, fine. Hm, how 'bout "Operation: Big Old Grouch"?
Carl: I heard that!
Doofenshmirtz: I hope so, because I said it.
(Doofenshmirtz leans against the wall, hitting the release button on Perry's trap)
Carl: You fool, what have you done? (at Perry) You may have escaped, but you're no match for my evil Flynn-Fletcher robots!
Doofenshmirtz: This is really weird. I, I think I may have gone on a date with that one. I had no idea she was a robot at the time.

(At the Uncharted Gorge, Phineas is creating some fanfare for their impending adventure.)
Isabella: Bravo.
Buford: He's totally better than Irving.
Phineas: Thanks Buford. Now that the fanfare's over, what's say we go down into Haijulikani Wadi.
Isabella: Where should we start?
Phineas: Well, first we'll fly down like a graceful condor landing on that rock outcropping. Then, we'll jump over those vines and brachiate like a monkey with our ape like arms. Finally, landing on the slope with our cheetah-like grace. Of course, any other path down would mean instant death.
Buford: That sounds totally doable.
(Candace is on the phone high up in the tree.)
Candace: Jeremy? ...Jeremy?
Jeremy: (on phone) Hello? Candace?
Candace: (at the monkey) It's Jeremy.

(Scene shifts to the OWCA headquarters.)
Carl: Get that monotreme!
(The robots attempt to capture Perry, but he evades them.)
Computer voice: Paw print identified. Password accepted. Computer locked.
Carl: No! He's locked me out of the mainframe! If he gets away, I'll never be able to take over.
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, this is really exciting!
Carl: Don't just stand around, you fool, get him!
Doofenshmirtz: The -inators!
(Doofenshmirtz begins activating the -inators)

Candace: You said you had something important to tell me. What is it?
Jeremy: (on phone) Candace... what I think... I though...we should...break...up.
Candace: What!? Jeremy!? (Close up on Candace) You're breaking up with me!?
Phineas: Alright, everyone. Buford, Baljeet, you guys have the legs.
Baljeet: Now you'll see how brains are used to...
Buford: Move over, nerd. This is a job for brash, unthinking muscle. (He pulls off the control for the legs) Oops.
(The entire Highly Unconventional Vehicle plunges into Haijulikani Wadi.)

Carl: Wait, wait. No, not all the -inators at once.
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, what did you say?
(All the -inators fire at once at Perry, leaving only a smoking spot behind)
Carl: You fool! What did you do?
Monogram: Agent P!

Maitre D: Flynn-Fletcher, I am sorry. You have no reservation.
(Both Linda and Lawrence gasp)
(Onscreen text)
To be continued...

End credits
(Song: "Evil for Extra Credit")
Carl: ♪ I used to put up with too much aggravation ♪
♪ But take a look at me now, ♪
♪ I got a new vocation, ♪
♪ You heard it here first ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm the one who said it, ♪
♪ Yeah, I'm evil... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: He's evil!
Carl: ♪ I'm evil for extra credit! ♪



Part I
(The scene opens in the Chez Afrique, with Linda and Lawrence sitting on a couch)
Lawrence: Well, it took three hours for them to untangle my hair from the gears, but I never lost my grip on that lava lamp.
Linda: Well, that explains the humming.
Lawrence: Yes, but fat lot of good it did me. I mean here we are, thirty years later and they've lost our reservation.
(The Maitre D walks over)
Maitre D: Oh, here it is. You were listed under "Fletcher-Flynn". My apologies.
Lawrence: Ah, here we are.
Linda: See, it all worked out.

(Scene shifts to the OWCA Headquarters)
Carl: You fool! Without Agent P's paw print, I can't unlock the computer. And without the computer, I can't take over the Tri-State Area.
Major Monogram: Nice recap.
Carl: Quiet back there! (at Doofenshmirtz) You! Which -inator zapped him?
Doofenshmirtz: You know, ah... I really am clueless.
Carl: About the -inator or just in general?
Doofenshmirtz: I'm not sure I understand the question.
Carl: Bah! I'll have to untangle this mess myself. The heat signature is wrong on the Disintegrat-inator. The angle is too obtuse for the Derezz-inator. The Julienn-inator isn't plugged in. And the Overhang-inator is just plain dumb.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, sure, until you wanna hang under something. Then what are you going to do, smart guy?
Carl: Continuing, the Smells-Like-Hay-inator, no. The Universe-inator just hit this trash can. Nothing left but this smudge. (sniffs) That means it can only be...
Doofenshmirtz: The Smudge-inator!
Carl: Did you make a Smudge-inator?
Doofenshmirtz: ...Ehhh... Continuing. (Carl grabs his nose)
Carl: The only -inator we haven't ruled out, that we actually have, is the Go-Home-inator. Meaning Perry the Platypus is home!
(Carl releases Doofenshimrtz's nose, then Doofenshmirtz falls backwards into a storage closet.)
Carl: Evil Flynn-Fletcher robots, let's drop by the Flynn-Fletcher house.
(Carl presses a button on his wristwatch communicator, revealing a state of the art aircraft. He then passes over the Flynn-Fletcher robots with a hand held metal detector, all of the beeping until Lawrence, who's holding a pineapple, sadly gives it to Carl.)
Major Monogram: You can't do this, Carl! You work for the OWCA!
Carl: Not anymore, Mono-grampa.
(The plane leaves)
Doofenshmirtz: Mono-grampa. I, I... That's good. Why didn't I think of that?
Major Monogram: You really think you'll be part of all this? He's playing you like a penny whistle in a really bad jazz band.
Doofenshmirtz: No. No. I'm part of the team! I am!
Major Monogram: Well, then why did he leave you behind?

(Back in Africa...)
Candace: He broke up with me! Of course he broke up with me. I mean, look at me. I'm a bundle of unbridled neuroses! I'm in Africa, surrounded by natural wonders, and all I can think about is finding a cell phone. (falling from tree) I'd break up with me too! Even the tree broke up with me! (gasps) Are you okay, Mr. Pockets? Jeremy's right. I shouldn't be his girlfriend. I don't belong in society. I don't deserve to be a part of civilization! (sobs) Candace is out! Peace! I'm going native!
(Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Buford, and Baljeet are hanging onto vines over Haijulikani Wadi.)
Isabella: Phineas! Do something!
Buford: Phineas, please help us.
Isabella: Phineas, please help us.
Buford: What's wrong with him? I feel like we've been hanging here for weeks. I mean, I got the brawn for it, but it's not like I don't have other stuff to do.
Baljeet: The weight of your freakish muscles will only pull you down faster. And why does he just stare into space like that? (screams) Phineas, help us!
Isabella: Phineas, help us.
Buford: Hey, dinner bell! Help us! Phineas!
Isabella: Phineas!
(Their vines begin to tear)
Baljeet: I am slipping!
Phineas: We have to get down there.
Isabella: What?
Buford: Up, good. Down, bad!
Phineas: Hold on, everyone! (swings on his vine, and then grabs onto his friends) Guys, grab on. Baljeet!
(Buford's vine snaps)
Phineas and Isabella: Buford!
Baljeet: Radius times the angle of rotation, taking into account wind velocity and humidity! (He throws a piece of vine, capturing Buford by his ankle.) Brains!
(They all tumble off onto a ledge)
Phineas: Come on, you guys. Perry needs our help!
Isabella: What?
Baljeet: Perry?
Buford: Uh, hello! We left him back home!

(At the Flynn-Fletcher house, the evil robots break in.)
Carl: Agent P, where are you!?
(The robots begin scanning for Perry. The Candace robot ends up in Candace's room.)
Robot Candace: Jeremy, human boyfriend.
(The phone in her room rings)
Jeremy: (On the answering machine) Hey, it's me. So, I was trying to tell you before...
(Back on the main floor)
Carl: He's not here! Where is he?

(Scene shifts back to Phineas, Ferb, and their friends in Africa.)
Baljeet: How could he be in Africa?
Isabella: Maybe it was a different platypus.
Buford: Yeah! Afristralia's probably full of 'em!
Phineas: Look, I know it doesn't make any sense, but he was right here! I saw him! He's alone and he needs are help. And I'm gonna find him.
(Phineas goes off, followed by Ferb, then the rest.)
Buford: I don't get it. How were you able to hold me up?
Baljeet: I tied your vine to my own. But how did you fall in slow motion?
Buford: Eh, it's a brawn thing.
Baljeet: Oh, here we go again!
(Meanwhile, Perry, who had been watching the whole conversation, walks off then chatters sadly.)
(His wristwatch communicator beeps.)
Carl: Why, hello, Agent P. Just wanted to catch up a bit. We never get any time to talk! In fact, we should totally get together in person. Considering that you're in such a lovely region with one-of-a-kind flowers...
(Perry yanks off his wristwatch communicator)
Carl: (Still at the Flynn-Fletcher house) Let's see, red petals, three golden pistils... Dendrobium uncharticum. Presumed to exist only in uncharted regions in... Africa? I was sure he was struck by the Go Home-inator. We didn't even have a Go to Africa-inator. No matter; soon his tiny hand print will be mine, and then the OWCA will be mine, and then the Tri-State Area will be mine, and then I'm totally getting extra credit.
(Scene shifts to the OWCA headquarters)
Doofenshmirtz: I don't know how I didn't see it before. He was... he was using me!
Major Monogram: Doctor Doofenshmirtz...
Doofenshmirtz: I trusted him and he just cast me aside, like a, like, like an old newspaper. He didn't even wrap fish in me!
Major Monogram: Oh, for Pete's sake, Heinz! Evil Carl must be stopped. We have to work together.
Doofenshmirtz: Not that being tied around a fish is what I imagined for my...-- Wait, what'd you mean "we?"
Major Monogram: We have to work together to save Agent P.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, no way, José! With Perry the Platypus out of the way, I can finally take over the Tri-State Area!
Major Monogram: Not if Carl takes it over first.
(Doofenshmirtz pauses)
Major Monogram: Let it sink in. ...Two...Three...
(Heinz screams like a little girl)
Major Monogram: Atta boy, now come on over here and let me out. We have to follow him.
Doofenshmirtz: But how? He took your jet!
Major Monogram: Oh, did he?
(Another jet comes from below)
Major Monogram: Carl always changes my radio station when we fly together, so I had this jet build just for me. That's, uh, partly why are budget is so tight now. We can track through the on board G.P.S. Now, come on, let's go. We've got a world to save. (He puts on a pair of sunglasses)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait a minute, wait a minute. How did you get the sunglasses to go on one side of your face? Who made these, M.C. Escher?
Major Monogram: He was a family friend. Now get on the plane, we've got a Tri-State Area to save.

(Song: "Livin' with Monkeys")
Candace: (singing offscreen) ♪ Tired of all the games ♪
♪ People play with your emotions ♪
♪ Tired of all the pressures of society ♪
♪ Tired of always feeling like I'm going through the motions ♪
♪ Fed up with all the fretting and anxiety ♪
♪ So I'm leaving it all behind ♪
♪ The house, the car, running water, electricity... ♪
♪ Yes, I'm leaving it all behind ♪
♪ No more heartache, pain, and sorrow ♪
♪ No more stressing about tomorrow ♪
♪ 'Cause here is my new life ♪
♪ I'm feeling free ♪
♪ And I'm living with monkeys ♪
And admittedly, that's a little strange.
♪ Yeah, I'm living with monkeys ♪
♪ They accepted me as one of their own ('Cause I'm living with monkeys) ♪
♪ At least that's I'm assuming (Yeah, I'm living with monkeys!) ♪
♪ It's not really all that bad ♪
♪ Once you get used to all the grooming ♪
♪ Cause, I'm living with monkeys! ♪
(In monkey language) Beautiful sunset isn't it?
Monkey: I've seen better.
Phineas: Platypuses always head west when they're lost. At least I think they do and I think this is west. I think.
Isabella: Uh, Phineas? We've been thinking, too, and isn't it time we, you know, find our way back?
Phineas: And stop looking for Perry? Are you kidding? He's our pet! He's more than our pet, he's our friend! And, I know he's out there. (shows reactions of Buford, Isabella, and Baljeet respectively)
Baljeet: We are in Africa.
Isabella: Yeah.
Buford: Pretty much sums it up.
Ferb: Well, has he been wrong before?
Buford: How wide are we willing to open this up?
Isabella: Wait. Look!
Phineas: Perry's footprints! Come on, gang, Perry's alone and helpless in a strange jungle. We've gotta find him before anything else does.
Buford: You know, that could be just a duck.
(Perry begins running, only to encounter a large number of African animals, glaring at him. Meanwhile, Carl and his robots land in Haijulikani Wadi.)
Carl: Dendrobium uncharticum. Yep, we're in the right place. Fan out and find that platypus. (The robots do so)
Major Monogram: (in his plane) We should be in Africa soon.
Doofenshmirtz: But I'm running way low on materials. I'm going to have to get a bit creative.
Major Monogram: Aren't we going to need that?
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, nah.
(The engine can be heard, rumbling)
Doofenshmirtz: Just out of curiosity, does this thing have a lifeboat?
Major Monogram: Uh, we're in a plane.
Doofenshmirtz: I knew that.
Phineas: I think we're getting close. I can feel it. Our worries are almost over.
Carl: (at the Lawrence robot who is in the bushes with him) Candy corn. (The robot gives him one, and Carl eats it)

Part II
(The Candace robot continues looking for Perry, but finds Candace, who has gone completely wild.)
Candace Robot: Candace.
Candace: Candar.
Candace Robot: Candace. Love. Jeremy.
(Candace howls, and climbs into the trees.)
Baljeet: Brains.
Buford: Brawn.
Baljeet: Brains.
Buford: Brawn.
Phineas: Oh, no. Oh, no. I lost his tracks. I don't know which direction to go.
Isabella: Wait! Grubs! Platypuses love grubs!
Phineas: They sure do, like Ferb and haggis.
Isabella: Maybe he came this way for food. Ugh, how am I ever going to get that grub-eating patch.
Phineas: Perry's fur!
Baljeet: He went that-a-way.
Isabella: Let's go.
Buford: Were we on "brains" or "brawn"?
Baljeet: Brains.
Buford: No, brawn.
Baljeet: Brains.
Major Monogram: That thing's not going to do us any good, if we don't survive the flight.
Doofenshmirtz: I'm building a Re-Good-inator, solely from parts from this plane. Do you know how many evil scientists could actually accomplish this?
Major Monogram: I'll be impressed when we don't plummet to Earth on fire.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, stop panicking, Francis. I haven't even touched the main stabilizers, you know... yet.

(The gang comes to a gorge, spanned by a fallen tree.)
Phineas: Perry must have crossed... here.
Baljeet: Maybe there is another way over.
Isabella: Looks pretty rickety.
Phineas: (Notices Perry) Perry!
Buford: Hey! Hey! There he is!
Isabella: My gosh, you were right. Hey, it's this way. Come on, let's go!
(Perry runs off)
Phineas: Perry must be scared. We're coming for you, buddy!
Carl: (From the bushes) Too easy.
(The Lawrence robot zaps the tree bridge, sending Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Buford, and Baljeet plunging into the river.)
(Perry, hearing them screaming, comes out of the cave, only to run into Carl.)
Carl: Sorry about your friends, Agent P. I'm evil, what can I say? (Perry looks around) Oh, the new robots. Yeah, I had some free time. And now you're going to give me a hand. Literally.
(Perry whistles, calling a group of African animals, who all turn out to be OWCA agents.)
Carl: New recruits, huh? I see you want to do this the hard way. (He mimics a trumpet) Charge!
Phineas: (Holding onto a log, floating down the river) We've gotta get back to Perry somehow!
Baljeet: I think we have a problem here.
Buford: No kidding. Ladies and Gentlemen, brains.
(They fall off of a "waterfall")
Carl: Give it up, Agent P.
(The robots and agents continue fighting.)
(Meanwhile, Candace is being groomed by two monkeys in a tree. She suddenly notices that something is amiss.)
Baljeet: This would be quite fun it wasn't terrifying!
Phineas: Everybody, get behind me! Hang on.
(They all do, Phineas steers them onto a tree, which launches them out of the gorge.)
Baljeet: Lucky for us, this quicksand broke our fall.
(A horn playing "La Cucaracha" sounds from Monogram and Doofenshmirtz's plane.)
Major Monogram: You modified the horn?
Doofenshmirtz: That's what I needed the stabilizer for.
(The plane crashes through two rocks, tearing off the wings, and crashing the jet.)
Doofenshmirtz: We live! See? See, one day you're gonna look back on this and laugh.
Major Monogram: I assure you, for the rest of my life, every time I look back on this I will personally drive over to your house and smack you.
(Meanwhile, Candace swings down and saves a lemur agent from an impending robot.)
Major Monogram: Is that thing ready?
Doofenshmirtz: I, I still need a few parts.
Major Monogram: No problem. (He jumps off the plane, tears off his clothes revealing a leotard) We're surrounded by parts.
Doofenshmirtz: If you can manage it, I need a ball-joint compressor.
(Monogram begins fighting robots)
Major Monogram: Catch.
Doofenshmirtz: Thanks
Monogram Robot: Put 'em up, handsome.
(Candace takes out the Isabella robot, but soon gets cornered by the Phineas one.)
Phineas robot: I know what I am going to destroy today.
(The Candace robot flings herself in front of Candace, taking the laser hit for her, then shoots her own laser at the Phineas robot.)
Candace Robot: You're busted.
Candace: Ooh-ooh! You saved me. Why did you sacrifice yourself?
Candace Robot: No Jeremy robot for me.
Candace: Jeremy?
Candace Robot: Jeremy.
Jeremy: (His earlier voice mail) Hey, it's me. So I was trying to tell you before, but we kept breaking up. Sorry, I missed you at the airport. I got caught up with my band, but I can't wait for you to hear the song we recorded. I wrote it just for you. Call me when you can. I miss you.
Candace: Wait, Jeremy didn't break up with me?
Candace Robot: Call him.
(Two doors open up, with a cellphone behind them.)
Candace: Jeremy? (at the robot) Thank you. (at Jeremy) Jeremy! Oh, it's so good to talk to you. No, I'm so sorry about that. I was just on the top of a tree, and I didn't have any service. And then I...
Phineas: Isabella, anything in the Fireside Manual about escaping from quicksand?
Isabella: I'll bring it up at the next meeting.
Buford: Hey, guys, I landed up here. Should I come down?
Baljeet: No! Throw down that vine. NO! Just one end.
Buford: Okay, But I don't know what you're gonna do with half of a vine.
Baljeet: Is it me? It is him, right?
Phineas: Buford, pull.
(Buford groans)
Phineas: On the vine.
Buford: Oops, sorry.
Phineas: It's him.
Buford: Here we go.
Baljeet: Oh man, I have never been pantsed by a continent before.
Buford: Don't feel bad, when we got out of here, I was gonna do that to you anyway.

Major Monogram: Hurry up, Heinz.
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, I-I just need one more thing. A small piece of tape.
Major Monogram: Tape?
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, you know, any, any kind of adhesive, anything. A sticker, adhesive bandage, uh... (He pulls the mustache off the Monogram Robot) Oh. This'll do. That's it, the Re-Good-inator, it's finished. Wait, wait hold on. Behold the Re-Good-in...
Major Monogram: Heinz, just shoot Carl with it!
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, see, that's the problem. It's mounted to the deck, and I can't swivel it. Bit of an oversight, I guess.
Major Monogram: (Still fighting with the robot) What? Where's it pointed?
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, right at that X-shaped rock. Wow, how serendipitous.
Monogram: Great googly-moogly! Heinz, hold down the fort.
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, we have a fort? What am I doing out here?
Monogram: Agent P, I need you to get evil Carl in front of that "X". And yes, I wear a leotard under my Nehru jacket. Quickly, we'll only get one shot.
Carl: Finish them. Finish them!
(Perry lands in front of Carl, taunting him with his hand.)
Carl: I will have that paw print! Those digits are mine! You're running out of room, Agent P. (Perry and Carl reach the X-shaped rock) Now, let's get this over with.
(He opens his shirt revealing a tablet waiting for Perry's paw print.)
Computer: Awaiting paw print. (Perry uses his tail to pull himself away from Carl)
Carl:Your prehensile tail won't save you now.
Doofenshmirtz: He's coming into range.
Major Monogram: Pull, Agent P. Pull!
(Carl notices the -inator pointed at him, and backs out of range.)
Carl: Oops.
Doofenshmirtz: He backed out of range!
Major Monogram: All is lost.
(Perry chatters)
Doofenshmirtz: He wants me to take the shot.
Major Monogram: What's the point? He's out of range.
Doofenshmirtz: I'm going to take it.
Major Monogram: Game over, man!
(The -inator begins powering up, and Perry takes out a picture of Phineas and Ferb.)
Carl: What?
(The -inator fires, bounces off the picture, and hits Carl.)
Major Monogram: Boo-yah!
Doofenshmirtz: What a marksman!
Major Monogram: Well, it only points at one place.
Doofenshmirtz: You can't give me anything, can you?
Carl: ...What happened?
Major Monogram: Carl! How are you feeling, kid?
Carl: I feel... good!
Monogram: Oh, I'm glad. Now, clean up this mess you've made.
Carl: Yes, sir.
Major Monogram: Oh, and Carl?
Carl: Yes, Major?
Major Monogram: Uh, recent events have brought it to my attention that you're a great help to me. And, uh, not quite sure what I'd do without you, in fact.
Carl: Really?
Major Monogram: Yes, and... and as of this moment, I am officially promoting you to the title of "Paid Intern."
Carl: Th-Th-Thank you, sir.
Major Monogram: You understand we won't actually be paying you. It's just a title.
Carl: Of course, sir. (Joyfully) Whoo-hoo!
Major Monogram: Good work, Agent P. You'll come back on the jet with us. Obviously, we can't have you...
Phineas: (In the distance) Perry! Perry!
(Perry looks at Monogram pleadingly.)
Major Monogram: Go on, you've earned it.
(Perry runs to go find Phineas and Ferb.)
Major Monogram: Come on, we've got to get out of here. We'll just use the jet's big magnet to pick up all this stuff.
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, wait; you guys are going to give me a ride back, aren't you?
Major Monogram: Sure, Heinz; after all, home is where the prisons are.
Doofenshmirtz: You're kidding, right?
Major Monogram: Do you want a ride or not?
Doofenshmirtz: Not if you're not kidding.
(The plane takes off, picking up all the robots as well as the highly unconventional vehicle.)

Phineas: We're almost there! There you are, Perry!
(Perry chatters)
Phineas: He's here, guys. He's really here!
Candace: Hey, guys.
Phineas, Isabella, Buford, and Baljeet: Hi, Candace.
Phineas: Nice outfit. Looks like you really embraced Africa. Now we just have to find our way out of the gorge.
Candace: Chill, guys. I got this.
(Candace lets out a call, and two elephants appear, one still wearing his fedora, which Perry reminds him to take off before the kids see.)
Candace: Don't worry, it's just our ride.
Phineas: Great idea, Candace. You're a natural.
Candace: I know, right?

Carl: Sir, there's something I still don't get. I'm absolutely positive Agent P got hit with the Go Home-inator. So why did he end up in Africa of all places?
Major Monogram: His family.
Carl: Sir?
Major Monogram: Well, they're here in Africa. Home is where the heart is, Carl.
Carl: True, sir.
(A loud crash is heard)
Major Monogram: Don't touch anything!
Doofenshmirtz: I didn't!
(Song: "On the Savannah" (instrumental))
(Scene shifts to the research station)
Linda: Look at that. Oh, I got to say, Africa is unbelievable.
Phineas: So, wait, how was the restaurant?
Linda: Eh, not my thing.
Lawrence: Nothing to write home about.
Baljeet: I guess it takes brawn and brains together to survive in the wild.
Buford: Whatever, give me your food.
Baljeet: Alright.
Isabella: Hey, Iggy, these s'mores are great.
Ignatius: Yeah, they have my secret ingredient... Grubs.
Isabella: Really? Thank you, Africa!
Phineas: Hey, can I have one for Perry?
Ignatius: I admit, I have never really studied the platypus, but I am absolutely shocked that this one somehow followed you all the way to Africa. It seems... impossible.
Ferb: Well, ever since George Shaw wrote the first description of the platypus for highly skeptical European scientists in 1798, this unique creature has become synonymous with the word "impossible."
Phineas: You know, Ferb's right.
Isabella, Buford and Baljeet: Yeah.
Candace: Really? You're all satisfied with that answer?
Lawrence: Alright, well, we're turning in.
Buford: Yeah, me too.
Phineas: 'Night.
Candace: Seriously, a platypus crosses the Atlantic Ocean, finds you on the vast continent of Africa and no one feels this is worthy of a longer discussion?
Phineas: It's been a long day, Candace, go to sleep.
Buford: Yeah, It'll probably all make sense in the morning.
Candace: Really? That's it? Nobody's with me here?

End credits
(Song: "Livin' with Monkeys")
Candace: ♪ The house, the car, running water, electricity... ♪
♪ Yes, I'm leaving it all behind ♪
♪ No more heartache, pain, and sorrow ♪
♪ No more stressing about tomorrow ♪
♪ 'Cause here is my new life ♪
♪ I'm feeling free ♪
♪ And I'm living with monkeys ♪
And admittedly, that's a little strange.



(Scene opens up appearing Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: Okay, give it a chance. We want your honest opinion.
Ferb: We know it's a little weird.
(Screen screeches up and goes to Channel 2 and viewed from a girl at the beach)
Girl 1: Help, help! Is there a doctor in the house?
Baljeet: I am a doctor. (Baljeet rips his clothes off, revealing a doctor's scrubs) And yes, I am single. What seems to be the problem here?
Girl 1: I think I sprained my ankle.
Baljeet: And you want me to take a look at it?
Girl 1: No, I want your brain.
Girl 2: Brains!
(everyone at the beach shapeshifts, revealing them to be aliens)
Everyone from the beach: Brains!
Girl 1: Brain.
Baljeet: Shape-shifting alien zombies, fair enough, but I must tell you that I am kind of using my brain right now.
(Baljeet grabs one of the aliens and throws it at the other aliens then rips off his clothes again, revealing a black gi. He dons a mask.)
Baljeet: Oh yeah, and I'm also a ninja, see.
(Baljeet shows his moves in front of the audience, after defeating the aliens, birds fly away, Baljeet jumps up into the air and the title appears)
Narrator: Dr. Ninja Baljeet! ("In Color" title just appears) In color!
(Screen switches to Channel 3, showing the title of the show)
Narrator: Welcome to the Klimpaloon and Giant Floating Baby Head Hour! Starring that magical old timey bathing suit that lives in the Himalayas, Klimpaloon! And the inexplicable Giant Floating Baby Head. With tonight's guests, Dave and Jim and the Tri-State Whimsy Jugglers, Dexter Thompson and his chocolate harmonica, the musical stylings of Bicentennial Crab, and featuring six of the original eight Kimpaloon and the giant floating baby head dancers. And now, here are your hosts, the Magical Old-timey bathing suit that lives in the Himalayas, Klimpaloon and the inexplicable Giant Floating Baby Head. (Klimpaloon and the baby head are seen dancing)
(Screen switches to Channel 4, where Suzy is having a tea party with her dolls)
(Song: "That's the Norm")
♪ He's robot from space, she's a little girl ♪
♪ They come from totally different worlds ♪
♪ If you think they're worlds apart, you're misinformed ♪
♪ Though it might seem unusual... ♪
♪ That's the Norm (That's the Norm) ♪
♪ That's the Norm (That's the Norm) ♪
♪ That's the Norm (That's the Norm) ♪
♪ That's the Norm! ♪
Norm: That's me!
(The Johnson house is in view)
Suzy: Norm, if you're going to live here, you can't just wander into Jeremy's room like this! What if he found out about you? Then, he'd make you return to outer space!
Norm: Space is cold and unforgiving, like my father!
(Jeremy knocks on the door)
Suzy: Oh, no! It's Jeremy! Quick, hide!
(a box that says "Your Cooking STINKS and so do YOU! Fridays at 7:00pm" appears onscreen)
Jeremy: Suzy? Is that you? What are you doing in my room?
Suzy: (opens door to Jeremy) I was just making you a surprise.
Jeremy: A surprise? What is it?
Suzy: Well, I was just making you your own entrance.
(She opens the door further to reveal a Norm-shaped hole in the wall)
Jeremy: Holy guacamole! You sure are a handful. (pats Suzy's head)
(Suzy winks at the audience)
(Screen switches to Channel 5, where Buford is shown)
Narrator: Buford Van Stomm, world renowned chef, winner of the Palme de Mouton, runner-up of the Tri-State chili cook-off, and master purveyor of cuisine to the crowned heads of--
Buford: Hey, get that camera out of my face!
Narrator: He's also kinda mean.
Buford: You bet your boots.
Narrator: Today on Your Cooking STINKS and so do YOU!, Van Stomm will be critiquing the culinary stylings of master chef André Guilbaud, creator of the legendary Crepes Guilbaud and his world renowned olive free, olive loaf flavored olive.
(Switches to Channel 6)
Narrator: Coming your way this fall, Katt Karr. The inexplicable story of a man whose car, for some reason looks a lot like a cat. Roger Doofenshmirtz, a politician of above-average attractiveness. On a never-ending crusade against the sinister, evil, cheesy smelling, and for some reason, dressed like a mouse, Professor Nibbles. Katt Karr, it's driving away from us.
(Screeches to Channel 7)
(Song: "Ducky Momo Theme Song")
♪ Ducky Mo, Ducky Momo ♪
♪ He's your very best friend! ♪
Narrator: Poor Ducky Momo. Are you lost?
Ducky Momo: (quacks)
Man: Yes, you are. Ducky Momo needs to get to the other side of the Dumbledown River. Can you help him find the Butter-Berry Bridge?
Kids: (Off screen) Behind you Ducky Momo! It's behind you! Yeah, right there! Right there, Ducky Momo! It's right there! It's right there! Behind you! Right there behind you! Behind you, and to the left. Your other left! Right ther- Behind you! Behind you! No the other way. Oh for Pete's sake!
(Switches back to Channel 2)
Girl 3: Uh-oh, Dr. Baljeet! Who are they?
Baljeet: Just some old friends. In post-apocalyptic battle gear. Okay, maybe "friends" is stretching it a bit.
Girl 3: Jeepers!
(A boat is seen passing through a drawbridge)
Baljeet: GI hope you have got your carry on stowed, because we are ready for take-off.
(He skillfully jumps over the bridge with his motorcycle, flying into the sky. The band of truckers attempt to duplicate Baljeet's actions, but only get to the other side of the bridge.)
Trucker 1: Dude, you are so lucky.
Trucker 2: Yeah, I know. I gotta slow down.
Girl 3: (Now dangling by Baljeet's hand, who is dangling on a piece of railing from a helicopter) Whoa, that was close!
Baljeet: As long as we are up here, how about we fly to a little island I know?
Girl 3: Oh, Dr. Baljeet.
Baljeet: Ninja.
Girl 3: What?
Baljeet: It is Dr. Ninja Baljeet. You left off the "ninja" part.
Girl 3: Really?
Baljeet: I did not go through six years of ninja school just to be called Dr. Baljeet. It is Dr. Ninja Baljeet, okay?
(Screeches back to Channel 3, where two men are talking to each other while the other two are juggling)
Man 1: You know, the guys on these sports team have some pretty funny names these days.
(A box that says "That's the NORM Fridays at 8:30pm" appears onscreen)
Man 2: Yeah, like those hockey players.
Man 1: No, no, those are just Canadian names.
(Awkward silence)
Man 2: How about these jugglers, folks?
(Switches back to Channel 4, this time in Suzy's room)
Suzy: (As she puts makeup on Norm) You're much more fun than my other dolls.
Norm: I'm honored!
Suzy: Yes. What do you think? (shows Norm a mirror)
Norm: Self-interest dictates a tactful reply.
Jeremy: (Knocks on Suzy's door) Suzy? Are you there?
Suzy: Yeah, just a sec! (To Norm) Quick, hide! (goes to open the door, shushes Norm, opens door)
Jeremy: (walks into room) Hey, sis. I can't find my lucky baseball bat. I've looked everywhere. Have you seen it?
Suzy: Uh... (She sees Norm, who is wearing a lampshade on his head and moves over so that Jeremy does not see him) Nope. Nothing in here that would be of any interest to you.
Jeremy: Suzy, you're acting kinda weird. You're not hiding anything, are you?
Suzy: No. (the siblings stare at each other) Get out of my room!
Jeremy: Holy guacamole! You sure are a handful. (He leaves)
Norm: (removes lampshade) Look at me! I'm the life of the party!
Suzy: My lamp needs a brighter bulb.
♪ That's the Norm! ♪
(Switches back to Channel 3, where one of the speakers is knocked out, due to being hit with one of the bowling pins the Whimsy Jugglers were juggling)
(Switches back to Channel 5)
Guilbaud: Of course I'm a-prepared. I can de-bone herring in thirty-eight seconds, and I can make five minute frosting in four minutes! (chuckles) Look out, Van Stomm. Chef Guilbaud is coming for you!
Buford: Who puts tofu on lasagna?!
Guilbaud: I was just trying to be avantguard, Che--
Buford: Yeah, people need to be "ava-guarded" from your food! (kicks plate)
Guilbaud: Clearly, I have much to learn. (sobbing)
(Switches back to Channel 6)
Roger: I don't know, Katt Karr. We've been all over Metroburg, and still no sign of the sinister Professor Nibbles. Got any ideas?
(Katt Karr meows)
Roger: Saucer of milk? Okay, I don't see how that's gonna help, but you're the car.
(Katt Karr meows again)
(Switches back to Channel 4, where Suzy is at a lumpy table outside of the Johnson house)
Jeremy: Hey, Suzy. What are you doing out here, and what's with the lumpy table?
Suzy: Oh, uh, it's my lemonade stand.
Jeremy: Lemonade stand? Where's the lemonade?
Suzy: I... drink-ded it.
Jeremy: Holy guacamole! You sure are a handful. (He leaves)
Norm: I made more lemonade!
Suzy: About time! We just lost a customer! Now help me fix this lumpy table!
(Switches back to Channel 5)
Buford: Look, some people tend to think I'm a bit harsh with these guys. But here's how I see it. DISGUSTING! UTTER GARBAGE! RAW SEWAGE ON A PLATE! It's really all about nurturing the talent.
(Guilbaud reaches for his olive free, olive loaf flavored olive, but Buford smashes it under a spatula)
(Switches back to Channel 6)
Roger: We've almost caught up with Professor Nibbles, Katt Karr.
(Professor Nibbles throws a ball of yarn. Katt Karr meows and then follows it.)
Roger: Bad Katt Karr! Bad Katt Karr! No, No!
(Switches back to Channel 3, where Dexter Thompson plays a chocolate harmonica and takes a bite of it)
(Switches back to Channel 7)
Man: Poor Ducky Momo. Still can't find the bridge? Can you help him find the bridge?
Ducky Momo: (quacks)
Kids: Behind you! It's behind you! Oh, for crying out loud, Just turn around! Rotate your body! No, not that way! Where are you going?! The bridge is right here by us! We can see it from here!
(Switches back to Channel 2)
Boy: Boy, I'm hungry.
Girl: Me too.
(Meap appears)
Both: Hey! It's Meap!
Girl: Meap, did you bring something fun to eat?
Meap: Meap! Meap!
Children: Yay, Meap's Carbonated Goulash!
Advertiser: That's right, kids! It's new deliciously carbonated Meap goulash, the goulash with foam! Featuring quasar pork-rolls, blackhole ham hunks, death ray beef segments, spaceship tofu, and Blue Chimpanzee DNA replicate helix marshmallow!
Children: Thanks, Meap!
Girl: Meap, your goulash is--
Meap: Meap!
Girl: You took the words right out of my mouth!
Children: (laughing; foam comes out) It's the goulash with foam!
Advertiser: New Meap Carbonated Goulash, includes everything you see here, except the bowl. Batteries not included.
(text: It's got that BANG!)
Meap: Meap!
(Switches back to Channel 5)
Narrator: We earn more patches before 9:00 AM, than most can in a lifetime. We dedicate our lives to be part of something greater than ourselves.
(Katie beats a buff naval officer in an arm wrestling duel)
Woman: You okay there, big guy?
Man: No!
Narrator: With each patch earned, a new skill beyond the ordinary. We are the few, the relentless, The Fireside Girls.
Isabella: We also have sleepovers!
Narrator: Earn credits for middle school, so talk to your local Fireside recruiter today
(Switches to Channel 12)
Man: Tonight, Vance Ward's exciting escape attempt, while Bob and Junebug are sidelined after Bob tries to maul celebrity judge Sherman from the 80's band, Love Händel. Tonight on Dancing with the Bears.
(Switches back to Channel 2)
Baljeet: There is nothing to worry about way out here!
(A yacht explodes behind them)
(Switches to Channel 3 once more, where the baby head and Klimpaloon are dancing to the music of Bicentennial Crab)
(Switches to Channel 4 once more, as Jeremy and Suzy stare into the night sky)
Jeremy: Well, I guess he's really gone, Suzy. You've got to admit, he was a lot of trouble. But deep down, I'm gonna miss that big guy. Come on, let's go inside.
Suzy: I'll be in in a minute.
Jeremy: Okay. (He leaves)
Suzy: Okay he's gone, you can come out now!
Norm: That's great, because I've got fireworks!
Suzy: Holy guacamole! You sure are a handful. (She winks and Norm does the same)
♪ That's the Norm! ♪
(Switches to Channel 5 once more)
Guilbaud: It wasn't to what Chef Van Stomm was saying. It was how he was saying it. So, I decided to take his teachings to heart.
(pans to Buford to reveal that he has a pot of spaghetti upended on his head)
Buford: And I couldn't be prouder!
(Switches to Channel 13)
Reporter: Huge meteor to impact the Earth at 9 o'clock tonight. Also, who's this little fella, and why is he in a bookcase? We'll have this story at ten.
(Switches to Channel 6 once more)
Roger: Well, Nibbles, it looks like you're caught like a rat in a trap. And you'll have plenty of time to gnaw on that in the state prison. And you'll be a rat in a, you'll, well... You know what? I'm out of rat metaphors. Anyway, thanks for all your help, Katt Karr.
(Katt Karr spits out a hairball)
Roger: Oh, let's pretend like didn't see that.
(Switches to Channel 7 once more)
Kids: What is he looking at?! That's not a bridge! What is that? That's a candy wrapper, not a bridge! Oh great! Look at this! Now, where's he going?! Get back here! Where did he go? Where did he go? How has he survives this long?
(Switches to Channel 2 once more)
Baljeet: So, it turned out that the invasion was all just a big misunderstanding.
Girl 4: So, does that mean we're safe now?
Baljeet: That all depends. Do you want more carbonated goulash?
(they both laugh, foam comes out, both cough)
Girl 4: I don't get it.
(Ferb turns the TV off)
Phineas: So! What do you think of Ferb TV?
Candace: (pause, stands up) I'm telling Mom. (She leaves to do so)
Phineas: I think she liked it.
(a ray, possibly from Doofenshmirtz, hits the cable box, causing it to disappear)
Candace: (Enters with Linda) Right here Mom, right on top of our -- (There's nothing there) taaaaa...
Linda: Again, what am I looking at?
(Candace facepalms)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry! Holy guacamole! You sure are a handful!
(Theme to "That's The Norm" plays and an audience cheers)

End credits
Advertiser: Meap Carbonated Goulash pieces are closer than they appear. Meap Carbonated Goulash may be subject to license title tax, and destination charges. Please wash hands thoroughly after contact with Meap Carbonated Goulash, if hunger persists after contact with Meap Carbonated Goulash, consult your--
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, I'm sorry, is this Studio A?
Advertiser: No, this is Studio—Hey, wait a second. You just wanted to get into this episode, didn't you?
Doofenshmirtz: What?! No...! No!
Advertiser: Yes, you did!
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, I did.
Advertiser: Get out!
Doofenshmirtz: Alright. But I can totally read that faster than you.
Advertiser: Out!
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, okay, grumpy.
Advertiser: Batteries not included.
Doofenshmirtz: Batteries not included!
Advertiser: OUT!



(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated a large beam of green light is fired from the roof)
Doofenshmirtz: Oopsy-daisy.
Candace: (On the phone with Stacy) So then Jeremy said--- (The green beam passes by her window disconnecting the call) Stacy? Phineas and Ferb! That was important! You guys are so gonna get it!! Mom!
Narrator: Elsewhere, in space.
(The green beam hits a planet, drawing it closer)
Candace: I think the boys are shooting green lasers in the backyard. Look.
(She looks and sees Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Buford, Baljeet, and Perry in the backyard.)
Phineas: (Looking through a telescope) Ferb, I can totally see up your nose.
Linda: Hey kids, how's the over-nighter going?
Phineas: Great Mom, everyone's helping, even Perry.
Linda: Candace, do you remember two weeks ago, when we wrote up this contract?
Candace: The Bust Accord?
Linda: And do you recall article twelve?
Candace: Yes, "I will not attempt to bust my brothers more than once a day." I remember. But--
Linda: And what happened earlier today?
Candace: I tried to show you a giant ant farm.
Linda: Excellent, we have an understanding. Now go to bed. You can try again tomorrow. (She leaves)
Candace: Fine! I'll just wait till tomorrow. Wait a minute, at midnight it'll be tomorrow. I can just stay up and bust them.
Baljeet?: This sleep over is a good idea.
Buford: How are we all supposed to see thought that puny telescope?
Phineas: The telescope is just to find the probe we launched seventeen months ago. Then we can tap into the signal from deep space. And using Dad's old projection screen, and some fiber optics to relay the images from the probe, we can view the galaxy in comfort from these lawn chairs.
Candace: (From her window) Space probe? Fiber optics? Ooh, I can smell a bust comin' tonight.
Phineas: These joysticks should the space probe remotely.
Buford: Come on, already! Let's start lookin' for stuff.
Isabella: Buford, I've never seen you so enthusiastic.
Buford: I have my reasons.
Baljeet: Oh, here we go again. He's going to tell the story of when he was abducted by aliens.
Buford: It wasn't an abduction, it was an encounter.
Phineas: Encounter?
Buford: Yeah, I was walkin' out in the middle of the woods one night with my lucky tambourine.
(Song: "Whalemingo")
Buford: (singing offscreen) ♪ Float by, ♪
♪ Drift through my dreams! ♪
♪ Whalemingo! (Whalemingo!) ♪
♪ In the sky, ♪
♪ Like strawberry cream! ♪
♪ Whalemingo! (Whalemingo!) ♪
♪ You take a whale, ♪
♪ You drop the fla- ♪
♪ You keep the mingo! ♪
♪ That's how I named it ♪
♪ Whalemingo! (Whalemingo!) ♪
♪ If you see a big, pink whale ♪
♪ With feathers and a beak, ♪
♪ And skinny little legs, then bingo, ♪
♪ That's a whalemingo! (Whalemingo! Whalemingo! Whalemingo!) ♪
♪ I think of you all the time, whalemingo. (Whalemingo! Whalemingo! Whalemingo!) ♪
Buford: That's my story!
Phineas: I didn't know you had a lucky tambourine.
Baljeet: This whole story is ridiculous.
Buford: No it's not! I have proof.
Baljeet: Ugh, here comes the picture.
Buford: See? (Buford shows his picture) I named him Tristan.
Baljeet: That is just a flamingo.
Buford: Tristan is not a flamingo, he's from outer space, and he's a whalemingo. But then he had to go home, and I never saw him again. Hey! What are you doin' with your hands?
Baljeet: ...Mocking you.
Buford: Alright, I'd be angry, but I admire your honesty.

(The back of the lawn chair Perry was lying on flattens, rolling him thought two croquet hoops, hitting the pin, and dropping him into his lair)
Major Monogram: There you are Agent P. Sorry to call you in a second time today but... (Perry stares at Monogram) Oh, this? It's- it's just an exfoliating mask. I have another ten minutes before I can peel it off, or I get zero of the benefits. Agent P, we just got word that Doof may have fired tomorrow's -inator, today. This is a major breach in protocol. So give yourself a good slap in the face, and get over there.
♪ Perry! ♪

Phineas: Okay gang, let's fire this thing up.
(The probe turns on, sending signals back to earth, and onto the projection screen)
Baljeet: Wow.
Isabella: Ooh.
Buford: Oh. Zoom in on the swirly thing. my gut tells me that's where the whalemingos are.
Phineas: Roger that. Hey! It's our milkshake bar! And business seems to be booming.
Buford: What about over to the left?
Phineas: Okay. (The probes moves over) Wow.
Isabella: Yeah, wow.
Phineas: It's a whole planet of-
Buford: ...Whalemingos.
Baljeet: I do not believe it, Buford was right.
Isabella: They're all so, beautiful.
Buford: (Gasps) Tristan.

(Perry arrives at Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc., and begins to look around. However, he sets off an alarm.)
(Song: "Double Dutch")
Double Dutch Machine: ♪ Volgen nu! ♪
♪ One dutch, two dutch ♪
♪ Queens of the double dutch ♪
♪ We skip better than you by that much ♪
♪ Watch our feet, our moves are sweet ♪
♪ Our double dutchin' won't -- (Winding down) be beat... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? How did you get stuck in my double dutch machine? That's not even a trap. Anyway what are you doing here? (Perry nods to the hole in Doofenshmirtz's ceiling) Oh, that. The beam that I shot through my roof? Well that was just an accidental misfire from my Sphere-attract-inator. Luckily it was pointed up, so it didn't hit anything. Anyway, I started thinking, and realized the true measure of a man is having a world famous roadside attraction. But which one to choose? Which one would be the most spectacular? Then it hit me, nothing brings them in like a big ball of twine. So that's why I built the Sphere-Attract-inator. To steal the worlds largest ball of twine! Then all I need is some sort of road to put it beside. Right?
(Cut back to the backyard)
Phineas: I gotta admit Buford, I had my doubts, but whalemingos are truly amazing.
Buford: Told ya.
(The image on the projector begins to blur)
Buford: Hey! Why is everything all fuzzy?
Phineas: I'm not sure, let me back it up, and we'll take a look.
(The probe backs up, showing only the planet)
Buford: It looks like the planet's growing. Planets do that, right?
Baljeet: It is not growing, it is getting closer!
Isabella: This sounds serious.
Baljeet: Ah! this is catastrophic! Should we not do something? Should no one inform the populous of the impending impact?
Phineas: Calm down Baljeet. I'm sure the government scientists are already doing something.
(At the North America Planetary Defense Headquarters in Marion, Iowa; all of the scientists are running about, completely freaking out)
Scientist #1: Duck and cover!
Scientist #2: My watermelon!
Baljeet: Based on my calculations, the planet will be here by midnight!
Buford: That's great news!
Baljeet: Our planets are going to collide! You do know what that means?
Buford: Sure, it's like when you have two sets of keys. And you keep one them in your car.
Baljeet: No, it means...NO!! It means all life is going to be wiped out on both planets!
Buford: (gasps) Guys we've gotta save Tristan!
Baljeet: Anything else, Buford?
Buford: And the Earth.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Perry the Platypus, what do you say we open the up the roof and activate the Sphere-Attract-inator? Then I can get a good nights rest before all the crowds arrive to see the world's biggest ball of--
(Perry launches himself at Doofenshmirtz, pushing them backwards, eventually setting off the Double Dutch Machine)
Double Dutch Machine: ♪ Nu! ♪
♪ One dutch, two dutch ♪
♪ Queens of the double dutch ♪
♪ We skip better than you by that much ♪
♪ Watch our feet, our moves are sweet ♪
♪ Our double dutchin' won't be beat ♪
♪ Touwtje springen, fast feud.♪
♪ Touwtje springen- ♪
Isabella: What are we going to do?
Phineas: We could use electro magnets, if only we knew the planet's molecular density.
Buford: I got a pail of water, and a nest to make comfortable. I figure I can keep him in my garage 'till spring.
Phineas: Spring. Spring! That's it. Guys I know what we're gonna do tonight!
♪ One dutch, two dutch ♪
♪ Queens of the double dutch ♪
♪ We ski-- ♪
(Doofenshmirtz turns off the double dutch machine)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, sassy.
(Perry throws himself at Doofenshmirtz, who crashes into his board, breaking it, and causing the -inator to fire, hitting the world's largest ball of twine, drawing close)
Candace: I knew they'd practically bust themselves, if I just waited long enough. You guys are so busted, in like... nine minutes.
Phineas: Oh, hey Candace, glad you're still up, you'll get to see the cool planet coming directly at us. But don't worry, we're building a giant spring to bounce it back into space where it came from.
Candace: A spring? That's not vert scientific. But it is still bustable.
Phineas: Here comes the planet now.
Buford: I can't wait 'till they get here. Tristan!
Candace: Finally! It's tomorrow! (Candace busts into Linda and Lawrence's room) Mom! Mom! What are you guys doing?
Lawrence: Oh, hi honey, we were just listening to some records. It's what we used to use for music when we were kids.
Linda: Candace I thought we had an understanding.
Candace: Yeah, it's midnight, tomorrow.
(The planet continues to come towards the spring. Isabella hesitantly reaches her hand out to grab Phineas's, only to grab Ferb's by mistake)
Ferb: Don't worry, it'll be alright.
(The planet fully compresses, and Buford comes face to face with Tristan, while the world's largest ball of twine floats by, catching on the whalemingo planets, and unraveling)
Doofenshmirtz: The world's largest ball of twine is on its way! You'd better stand back, it's supposed to be huge! (The ball of twine now much smaller arrives) What? That's it?
(The spring begins to decompress)
Buford: Goodbye Tristan! Remember me! (Buford throws up his lucky tambourine, and Tristan catches it on his neck.)
Doofenshmirtz: I got a twine ball bigger than this in my junk drawer.
(The -inator, being pulled by the twine attached to the whalemingo planet pushes Doofenshmirtz off the edge of the building, and wraps around itself the giant spring)
Doofenshmirtz: Help me Perry the Platypus! I'm slipping! (Perry grabs a double dutch machine, and catches Doofenshmirtz by the ankle with the jump rope) Oh thank you Perry the-- (Perry activates the machine, repeatedly slamming Doofenshmirtz against the building)
Double Dutch Machine: ♪ Nu! ♪
♪ One dutch, two dutch ♪
♪ Queens of the double dutch ♪
♪ We skip better than you by... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I mean curse you Perry the Platypus!!
Candace: Hurry, let's go! Let's go!
Linda: Clearly we need a thirteenth amendment to the Bust Accord.
(The spring is about to come loose)
Candace: Moooooom?!
(At this point, the spring gets pulled into space along with the -inator and whalemingo planet)
Linda: You kids okay out here?
Phineas: Yeah, we're great!
Buford: We saw a giant planet filled with whalemingos.
Linda: Whalemingos, huh? Why don't you all come on in for a midnight snack. Wash your hands. Especially you, Buford.
(Perry jumps off his hover scooter, and lands back on the lawn chair)
Phineas: Hey sleepy head, do you want a snack too?
(Perry chatters, then jumps off the lawn chair)

End credits
Buford: ♪ If you see a big, pink whale ♪
♪ With feathers and a beak, ♪
♪ And skinny little legs, then bingo, ♪
♪ Whalemingo! (Whalemingo! Whalemingo! Whalemingo!) ♪
Buford: I think of you all the time, whalemingo. Especially when I've had spicy tacos just before bed. And your feather, tickle me in my dreams. Tristan! Tristan.
♪ (Whalemingo! Whalemingo! Whalemingo!) ♪



(Scene opens at Flynn-Fletcher house with Phineas, Isabella, Buford, and Baljeet sitting under the tree)
Buford: So then the seamstress walks back into the stateroom and says, " 'Titanium'? I thought she said 'cranium'!" Hahaha, yeah. Pretty good punch line, huh?
Baljeet: Yes. All you need now is the first part, and then you will have a whole joke.
Phineas: Hey, look everyone, Ferb and Perry are back.
Buford: Hey, Ferb!
Isabella: What'cha doin' back from debate camp so soon?
Ferb: We finished earlier than expected.
(Flashback to earlier)
Debater: You're right. Judges, he's right. He's changed my entire world-view. Thank you.
Judge 1: It's so beautiful.
Judge 2: That kid is in it to win it, dawg.
(End flashback)
Phineas: You're just in time for acorn nut muffins made out of the training nuts from yesterday!
Ferb: Training nuts? Okay, what did I miss?
Phineas: It all started simply enough.
(Flashback to yesterday)
Phineas: (Narrating) I'd gotten up early to help Isabella earn her surf patch.
Isabella: Thanks for helping me earn my surf patch!
Phineas: (Narrating) And I told her it was no problem. (In flashback) No problem. (Narrating) It was at that point that I decided to stop narrating. (in flashback) My schedule's wide open. Here, take a look at this. I figured I'd make a few prototypes and once you pick your favorite, we'll design your board to look just like it.
Isabella: Awww, they're so cute and tiny a squirrel could surf on them. Now, if we only had a box of squirrels.
(Buford and Baljeet comes into the yard caring a box with them)
Baljeet: We found a box of squirrels!
Buford: Yeah, right next to a box of scorpions, which is what I wanted to bring over.
Baljeet: Buford, I won Rochambeau fair and square.
Isabella: What's Rochambeau?
Phineas: Rock-paper-scissors!
Isabella: Why didn't he just say that?
Buford: (Angrily) In what universe would a piece of paper ever beat a rock?
(Phineas and Isabella walk towards them)
Phineas: Hey, let's see the little guys.
Baljeet: Okay, but do not expect too much from them.
(Baljeet dumps the squirrels out of the box)
Phineas: What's wrong with them?
Baljeet: They appear to have been domesticated. They have no squirrel skills. Check it out.
(Baljeet holds a nut out)
Baljeet: Here little squirrellies. Here is a nut.
(He drops the nut on the floor, and the squirrels sniff and play with the nut)
Phineas: (to the squirrels) It's a nut, you eat it. (to Baljeet) I see what you mean. No squirrel skills. Ferb, I... Oh, that's right, he went to debate camp today.
Baljeet: Oh, oh! I will be Ferb! I have been practicing!
(Baljeet clears his throat and twists his head to make his eyes look like Ferb's)
Isabella: That's pretty good, Baljeet.
Phineas: Wow! It's as if he's right in front of us.
(Buford lays on the ground in a Perry like position)
Buford: Oh! Oh! Say "Where's Perry?" now. I've been practicing.
Phineas: Okay. Where's Perry?
Buford: I don't know. What are you asking me for?
(End flashback)
Phineas: And so, that's how the day began. Hey, where's Perry now?

(Perry enters into his lair, and Major Monogram sends him a message)
Major Monogram: Welcome back, Agent P. We hope you had a pleasant day off. Anyways, there's a crisis brewing in Danville, (camera pans to Perry, who grips his seat, then switches back to Major Monogram) and it could destroy the very fabric of our existence. There's never been a greater threat. Peaches! (Perry is shown with a confused look on his face, Major Monogram continues) Oh, you probably want me to explain the... (Major Monogram chuckles to himself) There's been a shortage of peaches in Danville lately, and we've traced it to Doofenshmirtz. Go find out what he's up to, and good... (Perry leaves) luck. Wow, guess he's in a hurry.

(Phineas continues his story to Ferb)
Phineas: It was about that time that Candace came up to us and said...
(Candace walks up to them)
Candace: Phineas and Ferb! I demand to know what it is that you've got planned today!
Phineas: Yeah, that.
Baljeet: Exactly like yesterday!
Buford: Except for the Ferb part.
Candace: Yeah, yeah, thanks. What are you guys doing?
Phineas: We're talking about what we did yesterday.
Candace: So, it's, like, a confession?
Phineas: Sure.
Candace  Oh, it's perfect. I'll go get Mom and she can hear everything.
Phineas: Good idea, Can...
(Candace interrupts Phineas while he is talking)
Candace: (points at Phineas) Now, don't say another word until we get back. (she points at Ferb) And that goes for you, too.
(Candace walks away)
Phineas: That was ironic, because Ferb doesn't usually talk.
Candace: (off screen) Duh!

(Perry lands at a beach, and is captured by Doofenshmirtz in a pile of sand)
Doofenshmirtz: Hello, Perry the Platypus! I take it for granted sometimes what a professional you are, especially after dealing with that guy they sent instead of you yesterday. So how was debate camp?
(Perry has a flashback to yesterday, when he was giving his speech)
Debater: (to Perry) You're right. (to judges) Judges, he's right. He's changed my entire world-view. And I thought that British kid was persuasive.
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: You know, if you were flashing back just now, I couldn't see it. I'll bet you're wondering what I'm doing here at the beach... At the clam bake. With an oven. And normally, I'd be all about telling you, and it's a really cool plan, too! It involves my latest invention, the Peach Cobbler-inator.
(Vanessa walks up with the Peach Gobbler-inator on a tray. Doofenshmirtz takes it, and she walks away)
Doofenshmirtz: But I'm getting way ahead of myself. I have to tell you about yesterday for any of this to make any sense! It all started with an establishing shot at my building.
(Flashback to yesterday, starts at Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc.! Yesterday. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (while cleaning an -inator) Huh. Perry the Platypus should be arriving right about... Now!
(The rhino agent crashes through the door)
Doofenshmirtz: How completely unexpected! (climbs down the ladder) And by that I mean, it really was actually enexpected. (walks towards Agent R) Well, you have a hat, so you must be an agent. I guess that means Perry the Platypus is not coming, so... (takes a controller from his lab coat) A-ha!
(Doofenshmitz pushes the button and a tiny trap captures the rhino agent)
Doofenshmirtz: Consider yourself trapped. Allow me to explain my diabolical plan. You see, my brother, Roger, the mayor, is hosting a beauty contest that will...
(Agent R cuts him off)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey! (sighs) For Pete's sake, I'm pontificating here! Sheesh! Okay, okay. Long evil plan short, I wanted to ruin Roger's day. You see, he's officiating at an "Everyone's A Winner" beauty pageant. (scoffs) That's so him. Uh, my scheme involved domesticated squirrels, paper doilies, and those containers that pantyhose used to come in. You know, about this big? (Agent R glares) But, uh, I couldn't figure out a way to make them all work together...
(Camera pans back to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: ...because I was distracted by a leaky faucet in the kitchen! Turns out that was actually the perfect idea. So I ditched the squirrels... You know, this isn't really making my evil plan short like I promised. Sorry. Anyway, behold! The A-Leaky-Faucet-inator. I will disgrace and humiliate Roger by dropping one big drop of water and...
(Crashing)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, where'd you go? (Camera pans to Agent R, who's eating from the trash) Oh, no! You're getting coffee grounds everywhere! This is so much smoother with Perry the Platypus. I'm just saying.

(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Candace: (while pushing Linda) Right out here, Mom!
Linda: (waves) Hi, kids! (to Candace) All right, what's this all about?
Phineas: We're telling Ferb the story of what we did yesterday.
Linda: Oh, I love stories!
Candace: Oh, oh, it's not just stories, but full disclosure!
Linda: Okay. (to Phineas) Go ahead.
(She and Candace sits on the lawn)
Buford: Well, we finally got to the musical part of the story. We all decided it was high time to teach the squirrels how to be squirrels.
(Flashback to yesterday)
(Song: "Be a Squirrel")
♪ So you've been domesticated, ♪
♪ Lost your identity. ♪
Buford: C'mon. C'mon.
♪ Just listen up and you can learn to be the best that you can be. ♪
♪ Gather nuts and scurry ♪
♪ And dodge a car or three. ♪
♪ If you concentrate you'll graduate ♪
♪ And learn to climb a tree. ♪
♪ But for now we'll show you how to make every chestnut count. ♪
Isabella: Whooouhh...
♪ We'll make you sweat, you won't regret. ♪
♪ Remember, put them in your mouth. ♪
♪ Be a squirrel (Come along, be a rodent trainee), ♪
♪ Be a squirrel (And you will finally be free). ♪
♪ Be a squirrel! (Be at the top of your family tree), ♪
♪ Be a squirrel! (Be a squirrel ♪
♪ It's your destiny). ♪
Whooooooooaahh!
(Phineas checks off everything on a list)
(End flashback)
Linda: (after a pause) Buford, you taught the squirrels to dance?
Buford: I'm like an onion.
Baljeet: Because you have layers?
Buford: Yeah, that, too.

(Scene shifts to the beach)
Doofenshmirtz: Anyway, after I cleaned up the coffee grounds, I loaded the A-Leaky-Faucet-inator and Agent R, I guess,...
(Flashback to yesterday; Doofenshmirtz, on his rocket skiff, arrives at City Hall)
Doofenshmirtz: (narrating) ...onto my rocket skiff and headed off to Roger's beauty contest. We arrived just in time for the swimsuit competition.
Roger: Oh, very nice. Twelve meters. We have a new record.
Doofenshmirtz: There he is, the big show-off. With his big smile (leans against Agent R) and his keys in his pocket and his lumberjack-like...
(bird squawking)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey! Hey, no. Shoo! Shoo! Get out of here. Go find another symbiotic relationship! Anyway, now that we've... Hey, hey! What do you... This actually feels great. Oh, I see why you like it. Anyway, and I'm going to power up the inator now. (pushes a button on the inator) Here we go. Powering up.
(A large drop of water starts to come of the A-Leaky-Faucet-inator. Camera pans down to Roger then back to Doofenshmirtz.)
Doofenshmirtz: Yup. You know, uh, this is the time where you escape and try to destroy my inator. Oh, for Pete's sake, I... (releases Agent R) There! Now, attack! Start thwarting! (Agent R walks away) No... No, no, no, no, don't just walk awa... (sighs) I miss Perry the Platypus.
(Agent R accidentally "punches" a hole through the rocket skiff)
Doofenshmirtz: Whoa! Wait, wait, wait. Watch out there.
(The rocket skiff spins out of control)
Doofenshmirtz: Why isn't the water coming off? It's beautiful.
(The drop of water leaves the A-Leaky-Faucet-inator)

(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Buford: Good job, cadets! Now, back down the tree. No, not like that! Head first! Sheesh, it's like I'm talking to myself here.
(In the living room, Candace is taking Linda out to the backyard)
Candace: Let's go, Mom. You got to see this.
(Back in the backyard, the large drop of water lands on the squirrels, who are now standing on the lawn. Surf music then plays while the squirrels surfs out of the backyard. Camera then pans to the kids.)
Phineas: Wow, look at 'em go!
Isabella: They're doing a pyramid! I didn't even teach them that.
Buford: Good luck, little guys. I'll think of you whenever I get a rabies shot! Which is often.

(Scene shifts to Doofenshmirtz, whose rocket skiff is still spinning out of control)
Doofenshmirtz: (screaming)
Roger: Thank you, Katie Bogosian, for the whistling belly button performance. You probably should see a doctor. But that concludes our talent competition, unless there are any last-minute drop-ins?
(Agent R, with Doofenshmirtz holding onto him, lands on the platform. Doofenshmirtz then screams while the rhino agent tries to buck him off.)
Judge 1: It's so beautiful.
Judge 2: That pharmacist is in it to win it, dawg! (Cameras pans left to reveal a dog) See, I'm actually talking to a dog. That's right. Talkin' to a dawg.
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: (now wearing a pink sash with the words "KING PRETTY PRETTY PRINCESS" in red lettering) And I was crowned (places a crown on his head) King Pretty Pretty Princess. Which, now that I think of it, is a contradiction in terms, but it was the first time I ever won anything. So it's gotten me all obsessed about entering contests. But the only thing I'm good at is baking peach cobbler, so I, I invented... Oh, yeah. I told you, "Behold the Peach-Cobbler-inator." What it does is it makes everyone want peach cobbler more than anything else in the world. So whether it's a chili cook-off or a dancing competition or a quiliting bee, or whatever, the, the judges will be compelled to choose peach cobbler as the winner every time.
(Camera pans to a glaring Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: Plus, it's waterproof, it's shockproof, (Camera pans back to him) it's windproof, it's...
(sizzles)
Doofenshmirtz: Huh. But it isn't sandproof. Fancy that. I suppose, since I planned to take it to the beach, maybe I should have considered...
(Doofenshmirtz tosses the Peach-Cobbler-inator over his shoulder, which fires a green ray. Camera pans to DEI, where the ray bounces off it, then back to the beach where Perry leaves on his jetpack.)
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the Platypus... and my own poor planning skills! (notices smoke coming from an oven) Oh, no! My cobbler! Oh! How can this day get any worse?
(The rocket skiff falls on Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Ow! Does that mean this thing's been flying around since yesterday?
(An incoming wave washes Doofenshmirtz and the broken rocket skiff into the water)

(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Candace: So, there you have it! Are you gonna bust them, or what? (stands up) Wait. (takes out a camera) Okay, go ahead.
Linda: Actually, I just love that you kids trained poor, abandoned little squirrels and helped them get back to the wild. I am so proud of you!
Candace: No, you can't! I want justice! I want... (the ray from the Peach-Cobbler-inator hits her) Peach cobbler.
Linda: Well, lucky for you, I made peach cobbler.
Candace: Peach cobbler.
Linda: I heard you the first time, honey.

End Credits
(Song: "Be a Squirrel")
♪ Been domesticated, ♪
♪ Lost your identity. ♪
Buford: C'mon. C'mon.
♪ Just listen up and you can learn to be the best that you can be. ♪
♪ Gather nuts and scurry ♪
♪ And dodge a car or three. ♪
♪ If you concentrate you'll graduate ♪
♪ And learn to climb a tree. ♪
Isabella: Whooouhh...
♪ Be a squirrel (Come along, be a rodent trainee), ♪
♪ Be a squirrel (And you will finally be free). ♪
♪ Be a squirrel! (Be at the top of your family tree), ♪
♪ Be a squirrel! (Be a squirrel ♪
♪ It's your destiny). ♪
Whooooooooaahh!



(Episode opens at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
Phineas: (offscreen) Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
Buford: A quilt?! No way! I mean, I know it's been a long summer and you guys are running out of ideas and-
Isabella: That's okay. Buford. You don't have to hang with us everyday.
Buford: No no no, I mean I mean I don't wanna play alone. I'll turn into a cat-kid.
Phineas: What's a cat-kid?
Buford: It's a kid version of a cat lady.
(Everyone stares at Buford)
Buford: Quick! Somebody say "Where's Perry?".
Baljeet: Where's Perry?
Buford: (sighs happily) You're always there for me.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
(Perry jumps behind Doofenshmirtz, whom is currently working on his -inator)
Doofenshmirtz: (turns around) Oh, it's you.
(Perry looks around, taps on the floor for traps, then chatters)
Doofenshimirtz: Yeah, so no time for traps. It's nothing personal, you see today is the annual L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. Summer Stock Festival and I got the title role, so I have to take over the Tri-State Area by 3:30 if I wanna make the curtain! Uh, that doesn't leave me much time for, you know, the trapping and the fighting. So instead I built this! The Trip-To-The-Desert-inator! It's going to send you to the desert, and I can get on with my day. (Activates the -inator, Perry starts to run away) Don't bother running, because I installed a Perry-Track-inator. It's going to follow you no matter where you-
(Perry leaps onto Doofenshmirtz, the -inator hits both Perry and Doofenshmirtz, sending them to the desert)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, great! Now I'm in the middle of nowhere! Now I'll never be able to take over the Tri-State Area before.... the play. (Perry starts to leave via his jetpack) Wait, wait, d-don't leave me here! Uh, Perry the Platypus, please! It's important to me! And if this works out, I might give up evil for acting! Won't you give me that chance, to succeed at something that might very well turn my life away from the evil path? Do it for the kids. Do it for the orphans.... that I might perform in front of someday if I ever do a show in an orphanage.
(He is seen riding on Perry's jetpack as they're flying through the air)
Doofenshmirtz: I don't want to be ungrateful or anything, but is there any way to speed this up? I gotta be in the make-up chair at 4 o'clock. Hey, what about this turbo switch? That oughta shave off some time, hey, right, yeah? (Flips the switch which causes the jetpack to sped off into the distance as him and Perry fall and land on the ground) Some pilot you are. (Glares back at Perry, who then points accusingly at him) Oh sure, blame the victim. Like you didn't know about my switch-flipping compulsion. (Perry starts to run away angrily) Oh, now you're mad, sure, I don't know why I tried to be nice, I should have just trapped you, I could have been out of the hospital and on my way to the theater by now. (Starts to walk towards Perry) Instead they'll end up using my understudy. Ughh, I hate that guy!
(Meanwhile, at the Utopia Theater)
Rodney: So, if Doofenshmirtz is late, I get to go on?
Man #1: (Unknown line) time for this entrance, you can have the part.
(Rodney squeals in delight)
(Back in the desert)
Doofenshmirtz: I guess it is summer and we're in the desert, but I I feel like it's unseasonably warm out here. I feel warm. Do you feel warm? Why do we always see cow skulls in the desert? And why do you only see the skull? Did the body die somewhere else? It makes no sense. (Perry walk away) Oh, I'm sorry, am I talking too much for you? Fine. I'll be quiet. I can shut up. I don’t have to talk all the time. It's not like I have to fill the space.... If you want silence, I'll give you silence! You watch!... And it's gonna be deafening! Mark my words!
(Later, he is seen walking alongside Perry)
Doofenshmirtz:  Why do they say "Mark my words?" I mean, they just mean listen to my words, why don't they just say "Listen to my words"?
(Song: Heck of a Day)
♪ Nowhere to go, nothing to see ♪
♪ Except sand and sand and sand, and you and me ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, look how big the sun is through this magnifying glass. (Gets harmed off-screen) Ow! Ow! Oh!...No really, it's huge, you should see it.
♪ Baked from the heat, we've got sun on all sides ♪
♪ Getting tanned and tanned, like we're a couple of hides ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I mean, he drives a taxi, for heavens' sake, he can work anywhere. He expects her to just pack up and move to Vegas. Seriously.
♪ Two lost nomads who will never be missed ♪
♪ Some might interpret this as just a karmic slap on the wrist ♪
♪ But I've just gotta say it's a heck of a day to be us! ♪
Oh, yeah...
Doofenshmirtz: I was sure my arm would grow back, but it never did. (taps his left arm which makes a metallic sound) See? Pure titanium. It's a fact.
♪ It's a heck of a day to not have a car ♪
♪ And just walk and walk and not know where you are ♪
Doofenshmirtz:  You don't communicate, you know that? You don't share. I know nothing about your private life. Perry closed off...... Closed, that's you.
♪ We got no kind of a map ♪
♪ Nothing to show us the way ♪
♪ And it's just talk and talk and talk with nothing to say ♪
♪ It's a heck of a day, a heck of a day to be us! ♪
♪ It's a heck of a day to be us! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: So I never touched an iguana again. Actually, that's not entirely true. There was one time, back in a—oh! Ooh ooh ooh! Look, Perry the Platypus, look! Two tires and an axle! Ahh, pretty soon we'll be rolling out of here! We're just gotta, gotta hop this fence. (Perry waves a finger back and forth) What do you mean no?! (Perry points to a "No Trespassing" sign on the gate) No trespassing! Oh oh you gotta be kidding me! You know what Perry the Platypus? I just have my third realization of the day, I have two earlier but I didn't share them with you. I've realized that the thing that's kept me from succeeding all this years isn't my parents not showing up after my birth, it isn't my eight month sting as organ griven monkey, it isn't the time that my arm got stuck under that boulder, also titanium see? (taps his right arm which also makes a metallic sound), it isn't any of those things. You know what it is? It's you! (points to Perry, who then crosses him arms) You are who's been holding my back all these years.
(Perry turns Doofenshmirtz's pointing finger around to point it to Doofenshmirtz instead to Perry's)
Doofenshmirtz: (sarcastically) Oh, very clever, that my accusing finger and pointing it back at me. (Normal) So so you think I'm responsible for my failures? (Perry nods) You're wrong! I can prove it. If you just let me try my junkyard scheme without interfering, it will prove to you that you are the source of all my failures! 
(Perry lets Doofenshmirtz go on with his scheme)
(Doofenshmirtz is next seen trying to go over the gate)
Doofenshmirtz: A little loose here, Perry the Platypus. (Perry crosses his arms) No, no, you're right, by myself. Okay all I have to do is- (gets zapped, dogs are heard and chase after Doofenshmirtz off-screen)
(Doofenshmirtz and Perry are seen walking alongside each other in the desert)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, okay, okay, just this once I failed and you have nothing to do with it, but did you have to let me trip all three bear traps? Like c'mon! Why not here in the hot sun working on ways to get us back to Danville (They both stop walking and look at each other) and you never offered me so much as a glass of water or or a teatanus shot! I'm going it alone. As a matter of fact, I'm sick of you and your smug face! I don't wanna see it any more. I'm going to close my eyes and count to 3, (covers eyes) and when I'm done, you better be gone. (Perry already disappears) And it'll be just like when you're here except that YOU (Points to where Perry is last seen) won't be here! (Counts) 1...2...3! (Open his eyes) Hey! He really.... FINE THEN! I can find the bus station on my own.
(He walks away, a tumbleweed rolls by and Perry comes back with a glass of water in hand, he looks around to find Doofenshmirtz already gone)
Doofenshmirtz: (crawling; pants) I said I wanted a sea otter for Christmas, they said I have to pick my present from the bottom shelf of the kitchen cosmics aisle at the supermarket so I bought an oven cleaner. I love that oven cleaner. OVEN CLEANER!! (notices a bus station) Hey, a bus station!
Bus Driver: Danville's at point's east! (Doofenshmirtz stands up) Tickets please!
Doofenshmirtz: (pants) I don't have a ticket for the... I've got to get to Danville to be in a play and I just gotta, I don't have any money, I'm tired and dirty and it's all my fault, I've.. It's always been my fault! I'm a failure, I'm a failure! (begins to cry off-screen) (while crying off-screen) I'm a failure.
Bus Driver: So... no ticket?
Doofenshmirtz: (while crying) I'm a failure. (Perry shows up with two tickets in hand, he stops crying) Two bus tickets? (Grabs the tickets) Oh Perry the Platypus, you're mench. I know I can be testy and unpleasant, I know I tend to ramble on and on, to be fair, the burden of conversation is kinda all on me in our relationship. And I know that I haven't always given you the respect you deserve, anyway, I want you to know that you are appreciated Perry the Platypus. You. Are. Appreciated. Oh, hey now, check it out. Look, see? A tear. The universal secretion for sincerity. (Doofenshmirtz catches his tear in a phial) Come on. You can have a window seat.
(Doofenshmirtz boards the bus, but Perry is stopped by the driver.)
Driver: Hold it! No animals allowed!
Doofenshmirtz: Tough break. Thanks for the ticket though.
(The bus drives off)
Doofenshmirtz: Sweet! It's air conditioned in here!
(On the bus)
Doofenshmirtz: (To nobody in particular) It's not like I wanted to go to the desert. He just jet-packed into me and dragged me along. No animals on the bus, it's no my rule. It's company policy. It's not my fault.
Passenger: Are you talking to me?
Doofenshmirtz: And what does he expect, he my nemesis. I'm a stone-cold villain. I'm ruthless. I have no "ruthes". ... Still he looked so sad and pathetic when the bus pulled away, and-- AH, I should think of something else. Kreplach! Kreplach! Eastern European comfort food. You like kreplach?
Passenger: As a matter of fact I do. When I was a little girl, my grandmother and I would make kreplach. First we would roll out th--
Doofenshmirtz: Enough of your blabbering on and on! My little nemesis is out there all alone. I can't believe it! Stop the bus! Stop the Bus! Stop-
Passenger 2: What's going on?
Passenger 3: Hey what gives?
Doofenshmirtz: I can't believe it.
(Perry continues walking down the road in the hot sun, but is shaded by Doofenshmirtz flying on Perry's jetpack)
Doofenshmirtz: Enjoying the shade Perry the Platypus? It's your jetpack! I found it stuck in the mouth of a fiberglass dinosaur I mean how often does that happen when you really need it? Climb aboard. Come on! Come on! Hahaha.
Doofenshmirtz: (to the tune of "Perry the Platypus")'[' ♪ Doofy doofy doofy doofy doofy doofy Doofenshmirtz! ♪
(Backstage)
Man: One minute 'till curtain.
Rodney: Looks like Doofy's a no-show.
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, we're running out of time! We're not gong to make it!
'(Perry straps Doofenshmirtz tightly into the jetpack)
Doofenshmirtz: Are you trapping me? But we were getting along so- (Perry motions towards the turbo switch) The turbo switch!? Are you kidding? I can't control this thing at that speed. O-Okay Perry the Platypus, if you think so... (Perry throws the switch)
Rodney: Oh well Doofenshmirtz, the show must go on, without you. ...And there's my cue.
Actress: ...I shall never go hungry again.
(Doofenshmirtz falls in from the ceiling)
Doofenshmirtz: Pizza delivery!
(The curtains close and everybody cheers)
L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. Member: What an entrance!
Doofenshmirtz: (To Perry) Haha! We got him good! And I couldn't have done it without you. (Perry turns Doofenshmirtz's finger towards himself) Oh, why Perry the Platypus... (Doofenshmirtz put the tear he collected earlier back into his eye) See I knew I'd need it later.
(Back in the backyard, the kids are standing on a finished quilt)
Buford: That was amazing! I never thought quilting could be so much fun! Think of the possibilities! Needlepoint! Embroidery! Tapestry! I'm headin' down to the fabric store right now! (walks away) Broquet! Taffeta! Saddle stitch!
Ferb: Actually I didn't find it all that exciting.
Phineas: Yeah, me either.
Isabella: Never getting that day back.
Baljeet: Whew, stinker-roo.

End Credits
♪ Baked from the heat, we've got sun on all sides ♪
♪ Getting tanned and tanned, like we're a couple of hides ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I mean, he drives a taxi, for heavens' sake, he can work anywhere. He expects her to just pack up and move to Vegas. Seriously.
♪ Two lost nomads who will never be missed ♪
♪ Some might interpret this as just a karmic slap on the wrist ♪
♪ But I've just gotta say it's a heck of a day to be us! ♪
Oh, yeah...



Part I
(Scene starts with a view of Candace's room)
Candace: (talking to Stacy on the phone) I think you're right Stacy, the ocean would be a lot deeper without all those sponges. (Candace hears noises outside) What is that noise? It is driving me crazy! Aha!
(Phineas and Ferb are in the backyard playing a game of table tennis)
Phineas: Nice try Ferb, but you can't psych me out with your dead on celebrity impressions.
Candace: All right, what is this?
Phineas: Table tennis.
Ferb: Ping pong, for the layman.
Candace: Yeah, yeah, but is it like, laser-activated, nuclear powered, supersonic ping pong?
Phineas: No, good idea though.
Candace: Ping pong, huh? I bet. I'll just stay right here until the inevitable weirdness happens. Any minute now. Alright, so where's Perry?

(Scene shifts to D.E.I.)
Major Monogram: (Through Perry's wristwatch communicator) Monogram to Agent P. Already airborne, I see. I like that! Doofenshmirtz has recently purchased an inordinate number of chairs. Hundreds of them! Far more than necessary for a person with no friends, and only one tushee. Well actually I'm, I'm just sort of assuming about the tushee. But I'm pretty confident in the no friends thing. You think it'd be the other way around, but the way he's always playing with forbidden science, you can never really be... This is coming out kinda weird, huh. Look, you're going over their anyway, just, just take a look, okay? Monogram out.
(Perry lands on Doofenshmirtz's roof, which closes over his head)
Doofenshmirtz: Psst! Perry the Platypus, over here. Hurry, hurry, it's- the show's about to start!
(Perry goes and sits next to Doofenshmirtz in one of the chairs)
Norm: Ladies and gentlemen!
(Song: Evil Tonight (instrumental))
Norm: Someone in our studio audience has a date with history! So come on up, because this is your backstory, Heinz Doofenshmirtz!
Doofenshmirtz: Me? Hahahahaha! It's me, Perry the Platypus!
Norm: Let's give him a big round of applause!
(Norm throws a lever, starting a clapping track, and forcing Perry to clap, via two mechanical arms)
Norm: Tonight we explore the life of a true evil genius. And find out just what makes him tick.
Doofenshmirtz: But how?
Norm: I'm glad you asked! With the help of our exciting but potentially lethal memory extraction technology, all of your most deeply suppressed memories will appear right on this screen! It's like a TV clip show fueled by your own brain. Now let's start our trip down memory strasse on the day of your birth, in beautiful Gimmelshtump, Drusselstein!
Doofenshmirtz: I don't really remember much about it, I was pretty young at the time, but- ooh! Ooh-Ooh! (The tube connected to the helmet Doofenshmirtz is wearing begins to bubble) I can feel it tingling; something's coming out!
Norm: (Norm shows a clip from when Doofenshmirtz was born) Aww, how cute! But where's Mom?
Doofenshmirtz: She didn't, uh- show up for the birth.
Norm: Remember this voice?
Doctor: When they are born, we slap their bottoms to start them breathing.
Norm: Here he is, all the way from Gimmelshtump Memorial Hospital, Dr. Mortimer Shlussel.
Doofenshmirtz: Dr. Shlussel, so good to—Hey!
(Dr. Shluelsle grabs Heinz, and slaps him on the rear-end)
Dr. Shluelsle: He is breathing.
Norm: And I'm sure you can guess who this next voice belongs to...
Mrs. Doofenshmirtz: Heinz, my little hobbengusher.
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, when she says "hobbengusher" like that, it's easy to forget that it means--
Norm: It's your mother!
Doofenshmirtz: Mama!
Mrs. Doofenshmirtz: Hobbengusher. (She whacks him on the bottom as well)
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, that's the way you normally say it.
(His mother whacks him a few more times)
Doofenshmirtz: AH! Ow! Why!? Ow! Why!? Why!?
Norm: Yes, your relationship with your mother left something to be desired. But, what about Dad?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, yeah, you know, tho- those were hard times.
(Narrating with the clip) The stress of running a family weighed heavily on him. We were so poor that one day our beloved lawn gnome was repossessed. Who would protect our zatzenfruit garden from those witches' spells and wood trolls? From a tender age, my father decided that it would be me...
Mr. Doofenshmirtz: Bewegen Sie nicht! (Don't Move!)
Doofenshmirtz: While the other children played Kick-the-Schtumpel and eat Doonkelberries, I would stand for hours.
Mr. Doofenshmirtz: Bewegen Sie nicht!
Doofenshmirtz: All through the cold night as the Spitzenhound howled.... My only companion was the moon. And my neighbor Kenny.
Mr. Doofenshmirtz: Bewegen Sie nicht!
Norm: What a fascinating life. We'll keep track of the level of emotional pain each backstory causes, on this colorful Gnome-o-Meter! As shown by Vanna, our gnome-o-meter spokesmodel. Looks like our gnome has begun his climb! (The gnome begins to travel up the Gnome-o-Meter) Scale those heights, you bearded, Scandinavian cutie! Perform a segue back to rights of passage!
Doofenshmirtz: Smooth, Norm.
Norm: Thank you, don't break the rhythm, sir.
Doofenshmirtz: And let me tell you, transitioning to adulthood was painful, but, actually, I guess a good indicator of things to come. (in a flashback on screen) In Gimmelshtump, jumping from the high dive was an important rite of passage.
Mr. Doofenshmirtz: Are you a man or a schnitzel?!
Young Heinz: I'm a man, I'm a man.
(Young Heinz climbs up the ladder, lays on the top and looks down in fear)
Queuing man: Das kind ist ein schnitzel! (That kid is a schnitzel!)
(He and other men laugh)
Doofenshmirtz: After that, my father and I became increasingly distant.
Mr. Doofenshmirtz: Zu nah! (Too close!)
Doofenshmirtz: (flashback ends) Whatever, I'm so over it. (his father walks up to him)
Mr. Doofenshmirtz: Bewegen Sie nicht!
(Doofenshmirtz stands bolt upright; his father walks away)
Norm: And there's another voice you might recognize...
Roger: What exactly am I here for again?
Doofenshmirtz: (With distain) Roger.
Norm: It's you brother, Roger Doofenshmirtz, beloved mayor of Danville. Everybody loves him.
Doofenshmirtz: Alright, alright, enough with the cheering; this is my show, not his!
Roger: Can I help it if Mommy liked me best?
Norm: Look at all those burbling memory bubbles. Tell us all about it, Dr. D!
Doofenshmirtz: (narrating over the clip) For a time, I was happy. It was a short time, it was... right... there. It was like five seconds when I was pushing the thing back and forth on the rug. And soon I learned my parents were expecting a brand new baby girl. My mother spent months knitting pretty dresses. Unfortunately, the baby turned out to be a boy, and because we were out of material, I was forced to wear those same dresses for an entire year! Drawing mockery and scorn from all of my manly classmates.
(clip changes) I wanted to gain my mother's affection somehow, so I went to the claw machine district in hopes of winning her a gift. Fortunately, I had with me my allowance, which I'd been saving for a whole year: one three-cent coin. I dropped it into a slot, then carefully maneuvered the claw toward the beckoning fuzzy grail! Odds were against me, but then it happened! The miracle! The claw grabbed the stuffed animal; it was mine! Then, like a knight of yore, I gallantly gave the prize to my beloved mother... who immediately turned around and gave it to my brother, Roger. I was crushed as I watched Roger produce a big red marker and write his name on the toy. And then afterwards proceed to do the same to my mother, claiming both as his own, effectively shutting me out of the family dynamic.
Roger: You know, Heinz, there's more than one way to a mother's heart.
Doofenshmirtz: Kickball. My mother's love was always inexplicably linked to kick... well, I'll just let the song tell you.
(Song: "Couldn't Kick My Way Into Her Heart")
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ My mother's love was always inexplicably linked to kickball, ♪
♪ And my brother was an expert from the start ♪
♪ But I lacked finesse, so when put to the test, ♪
♪ I couldn't kick my way right into her heart... ♪
Ladies and gentlemen, Love Händel!
Danny: ♪ Oh yeah! ♪
(flashback ends)
Roger: Wait a second, you had Love Händel play your flashback?
Doofenshmirtz: I know people.
Roger: Really.
Doofenshmirtz: ...No, not really; I told them it was for you.
Roger: Mmhmm. Well, I've got a city to govern.
Doofenshmirtz: Don't let your ego hit you on the way out!
Norm: Although your family life was tough, your social life was. how should we say, a soul-shattering void.
Doofenshmirtz: (narrating over clip) A painful, but accurate choice of words, Norm. At the age of five, I was forced to throw my own surprise party.
Gunther Goat Cheese's goat: (within the flashback, enters with a cake) Hello, boys and- oh. Mmm... awkward. (puts the cake down and leaves)
Doofenshmirtz: (narrating) Ten seconds later, they confiscated the cake; apparently there's a two-person minimum.
Norm: Ooh! That stings! Do you recall a young lad named Boris?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, sure. Big Black Boots Boris the Bully. (clip starts) He was always kicking sand in my face. When I was in the sandbox: sand. My first date: sand! Balancing my checkbook: sand! The beach-- Oddly enough nothing. But I couldn't relax, because I kept waiting for it.
Norm: Well, Boris owns a car dealership now, and declined to appear on this show. But he did send some sand! (a giant pile of sand drops on Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: (muffled) Well, at least he cared enough to do that.
Norm: You did have one friend...
Doofenshmirtz: Balloony!! (clip starts) When I was a boy, the smell of pork emanating from me was so bad because of, well, the reason's unimportant, it was part of a different emotionally-scarring backstory; I'm not getting into... regardless, the smell of pork was so bad that no one would come near me. So one day the carnival came to town and I needed money because of, well another back story that... basically, my parents disowned me, I was being raised by ocelots. The point is, I had to get a job at the carnival, but the only work was at the dunking booth, and not as the guy who got dunked though, I was what they threw to dunk him, which is again a whole other backstory. Okay, look- long backstory short, I got a balloon at the carnival, I drew a face on him, I sprayed him with special "Lifelong-Lasting" spray I created, and I named him "Balloony." He became my best friend in the whole world, yadda yadda yadda. Then one tragic day, when I was protecting our garden as a lawn gnome, Balloony started floating away. (clip ends) And then I didn't see him for a long time; it wasn't 'til... well, there was this whole thing with an alien ship, it was really improbable.
Norm: Well, here he is! (Balloony is seen in front of a backdrop)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, Balloony, I-I've missed you so mu- (Balloony pops; Doofenshmirtz gasps) Baaaallllooooonnnyyyy!!
Norm: Ha-ha-ha! We're just having fun with you! That wasn't the real Balloony!
Doofenshmirtz: It wasn't?
Norm: No, of course not! The real Balloony popped three weeks ago! (holds up the popped Balloony)
Doofenshmirtz: (bawling) BAAAALLLLLOOOOONNNNNNYYYYYYYYYY!!!!! (continues bawling over Norm's line)
Norm: Aaand uncomfortable transition back to the Gnome-o-Meter! (gnome rises from 10,000 past the 15,000 line) Wow, that backstory really had some juice. Now, if you've finished weeping, let's continue! In another misguided attempt to engage in life, you entered one of your inventions in a science fair!
Doofenshmirtz: (clip starts) That's right. It- it was my very first -inator! Just as I was about to demonstrate my invention to the judges, a kid with a baking soda volcano stole the show! The next year, I tried again with my even bigger -inator. And again, my thunder was stolen by a baking soda volcano! I'd had enough of science. I decided to devote my life to poetry instead.
Young Adult Doofenshmirtz: The movies are gray, the TV is black, the horses are running, please bring me some food.
Doofenshmirtz: (narrating) Yet, curiously, I still lost to a baking soda volcano! (clip ends) And what's worse, his poetry lacked subtext entirely. Hey, where's Perry?
(Perry's seat is seen empty with the mechanical arms tied up)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, what are you do- (Perry looks behind a curtain) Okay, playtime's over! Norm? (Norm flips a lever, lifting the curtain to reveal a glass dome with a bubbling liquid inside and electrodes on top; a metal claw comes down and lifts Perry off the ground) Behold, the Backstory-inator! You see, evil is born from pain and loss, but reliving one story at a time was not getting me anywhere! Now with this, I can collect the liquid essence of all my pain and suffering! And when it's all full, I can re-inject it into myself, making me the most powerfully evil person that has ever lived. Then nothing can stop me from taking over the entire Tri-State Are-aaugh!! (screams as an ocelot attacks him)
Norm: Oh, there's Mama Ocelot.
Doofenshmirtz: Ironically, she's still more nurturing than my own mother! Ow, off, quit it!

Part II
(In the Flynn-Fletcher backyard, Candace is still watching Phineas and Ferb playing ping pong)
Candace: Any time now, they're going to do something big and bustable. I just know it.

(Back at D. E. I.)
Doofenshmirtz: And so, Perry the Platypus, to recap what I said mere moments ago before I was so rudely and painfully interrupted, once I have charged my Backstory-inator, the tragedy of it all will be re-injected back into me, and I will be transformed into the ultimate creature of evil! And look, we're almost there! (the gnome is shown teetering at the summit of the Gnome-o-Meter) One more backstory should do it! Let's see... remember the time...
Vanessa: (entering) Hey Dad, can I have the keys to the car?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, sure, Vanessa! Oh no, no, good memories flowing! Aaahhh! Can't stop... pleasant reminiscences! (flashback montage starts) Aaaaahhhhhhhh!!
(Song: "Not So Bad A Dad")
Vanessa: ♪ You were a substandard dad ♪
♪ But the only one I had ♪
♪ I grew up hearing your evil scheming down the hall ♪
Biker: Hey, sweetheart. How'd you like to take a ride on a real bike?
Doofenshmirtz: She's sixteen!
♪ But this piece of plastic in my hand ♪
♪ Makes me finally understand ♪
♪ Maybe you're not so bad a dad ♪
♪ Not so bad a dad after all... ♪
Vanessa: It only matters that I think he's cool.
Doofenshmirtz: She thinks I'm cool!
(montage ends; gnome drops from the summit (about 30,000) drastically)
Vanessa: Okay Dad, if you want to hold your head and quiver some more, that's totally okay with me, but can I have the keys?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, yeah, right. Here you go.
Vanessa: Have fun with your little toys. (leaves)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, look at the Gnome-o-meter! (gnome settles at 5,000) We're practically starting over.
Norm: That's okay, sir. You have lots of painful history to explore. Tell us, how did you come to America?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, it was when I was sixteen, or thereabouts; I had stopped celebrating birthdays at that point for... you know, obvious reasons. (clip begins) And then one day, my parents sent me out to the Schtor to get some doozenbratt. (in the clip, the "Schtor" is revealed to be a painting of the front of a Schtor hiding the entrance to a ship; the ship takes off and Heinz's parents celebrate and hug) You know, I've always had trouble between a Schtor and a- a painting of a Schtor, but- but it started me off on the greatest adventure of my life! I decided to seize the day with both hands! (Heinz is shown swabbing the poop deck) Aaand a mop. I was heading to a golden land of opportunity; a land with a pioneering spirit which welcomed misfits like me! But I ended up in America instead. (Heinz is literally kicked off the ship) I just knew that I was home! (a large crate lands on Heinz; flashback ends) In the sense that it was... familiar. (gnome rises to 20,000)
Norm: Once in America, you began the human rite of passage known as... high school! Leading to one of the most embarrassing viral videos of all time! ("I am a Superstar" appears on screen)
Doofenshmirtz: Ugh, I thought I deleted that from everyone's memory.
Teenage Heinz: I am a superstar!
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, yeah, we- we've all seen this, Norm. That's enough.
Teenage Heinz: (falls into toilet) It won't- (video stops)
Norm: But you haven't seen the digital remix! (plays digital remix)
Teenage Heinz: ♪ I am a superstar! It won't stop flushing! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, this is really surreal. Eugh.
Teenage Heinz: ♪ I am a superstar! Wo-, wo-, it won't stop flushing! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Creeping me out a little, I'll be honest.
Teenage Heinz: ♪ Wo-, wo-, it won't stop flushing! ♪
♪ Wo-, wo-, it won't stop flushing! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Seriously, Norm, that's enough.
Teenage Heinz: ♪ Wo-, wo-, it won't stop flushing! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Enough now. (remix stops)
Norm: It's got ten billion hits! And there's only seven billion people on the planet!
Doofenshmirtz: I'm never going to live that down.
Norm: And yet, despite a serious lack of coolness, you still managed to date a future pop star!
Doofenshmirtz: What? Lindana is here?
Norm: Actually, she didn't remember you!
Doofenshmirtz: Well, that figures. We only had the one date, but it was eventful. (clip begins) It was at the Danville Drive-In.
80's Heinz: Okay, the coast is clear! You can come out now! (Linda emerges from the trunk)
80's Linda: Eww. It's grody back here!
80's Heinz: Well, on the bright side, you got in for free, so... we'll just split the cost of my ticket, right? Right?
80's Linda: You know, I could've gotten in the trunk, like, a block away instead of when you first picked me up at my house.
80's Heinz: Wow, you just love to live in the past, huh? Is that like a thing with you?
80's Linda: (sighs) Whatever. Let's just try to enjoy the rest of the evening.
80's Heinz: (does a robot dance) I am a happy robot, likey what I hear. I'm just kidding; that's a thing I do. C'mon, hop in! (Heinz and Linda get in his car)
Radio Announcer: You were listening to "That's Wings, You Turkey" by King of Loud. And here's a new one from Zanzibar, "What Do It Do?"
80's Linda: Oh, turn it up! I love this song!
80's Heinz: It's okay, I'd say it's in my top seven, eight favorite songs about reverse engineering.
80's Linda: Makes me want to be a pop star!
80's Heinz: Ha! Yeah right, and I'm going to rule the world!
80's Linda: Well, why not?
80's Heinz: Yeah, like I could do that.
80's Linda: Maybe instead of, you know, the whole world, uh, start... small, with the Tri-State Area. (dramatic chord plays) Hey, the movie's starting!
Norm: It was at that point that you realized the only business for you was... I'm waiting for you to finish my sentence for me, sir...
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, of course. Bratwurst!
Norm: Actually, I was going to say "evil," sir.
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, but before I was evil, I was a bratwurst street vendor. (clip starts)
♪ Doofenshmirtz quality bratwurst! ♪
Kid 1: How do you know when you're really lame?
Kid 2: When you sell bratwurst! (kids laugh)
(the gnome moves up an inch)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, that seemed more painful at the time. Oh man, it's gonna take forever to get the gnome back up to the top at this rate.
Norm: Hold your horses, sir. We're just getting to... your love life!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, boy.
(Song: Happy Evil Love Song (instrumental))
Doofenshmirtz's date: (to Perry) You are the cutest thing I've ever seen. Yes, you are. Yes, you are.
Doofenshmirtz: You know, some people say we look alike.
Doofenshmirtz's date: Uh, I don't think so. Not at all. No, not at all.
Doofenshmirtz: But when I turned the Translator-inator on...
(whales squealing)
Whale: (via the Translator-inator) ..What a loser that guy up there is! She should dump that pink chimp and go out with a real mammal like me!
Doofenshmirtz: She left me for that trash-talking 35-ton pile of blubber.
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Evil love... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I have never been so happy in my entire life!
Doofenshmirtz's unnamed ex-girlfriend: Oh, Heinz- (De-Love-inator fires) I feel nothing.
Doofenshmirtz: But- But- But-
Doofenshmirtz's unnamed ex-girlfriend: Nothing!
Norm: And do you recall this voice?
Charlene: Hello, Heinz. I have your alimony check.
Doofenshmirtz: Heh-heh... Charlene!
Norm: That's right. It's your former wife, Charlene Doofenshmirtz.
Charlene: Delivered in person, like you asked. Ah, what is this, a game show set? Is this what you spend the money on?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, you know, also groceries.
Charlene: Well, at least it's not in my garage. Nice tux, Norm.
Norm: She's fantastic!
Doofenshmirtz: Norm, let's bring out the big guns: Failed -inators! (montage set to 1812 Overture begins)
(the Age Accelerator-inator blasts randomly)
(the Mountain-out-of-a-Molehill-inator electrocutes Doofenshmirtz)
(the water fortress explodes)
(Candace's rocket crashes into Doofenshmirtz's space station)
(the giant baking soda volcano blows up)
(the Dynamic-inator explodes)
(the Monster Truck Away-inator disappears)
(the Invisinator-turned-Disintegrator zaps its own control panel)
(the Look Away-inator fries)
(the Deface-inator goes boom)
(the Turn Everything Evil-inator explodes)
(Phineas and Ferb's giant bowling ball smashes into the Giant Robotic Penguin Icy Freeze Your Socks Off Breath-Inator Thingy)
(the Dance-inator fires one last ray and explodes)
(the overheated Steak Containment Unit blasts steaks across the Tri-State Area)
(the Bum-Bum-inator rockets into the sky)
(the Juice-inator liquefies D. E. I. and the amusement park track)
(the De-Handsome-inator launches into the air, fires a ray, and explodes)
(the supercomputer explodes on the D. E. I. balcony)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, at least I found the key to the- (his roof explodes) Nice. Curse you, Perry the- (the roof crashes down again) Oh... Why does everything explode so easily? (the entire top of his building explodes)
Doofenshmirtz: You know what I'm noticing a lot of? I blow up more than the average guy. (Perry notices a ceiling fan near his trap while Vanna is on the phone and starts swinging toward it) Do they have blowing-up insurance? I should get some of that. And if they don't have it, I think they should make it, 'cause I would buy some. Oh, baby, what an emotional workout!
Norm: And one more good trauma should send Arthur over the top! (the gnome is shown teetering at the edge of the summit)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha-ha, yeah! Hit me with your best shot!
Norm: That's just it, sir! The rest are more comical than tragic.
Doofenshmirtz: What? How are we supposed to go over the- OOF! (Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz off his chair) Aw, curse you, Perry the Platypus- and by "curse you," I mean "thank you!" By humiliating me, you have inadvertently provided me the last tragic backstory I need to put this baby over the top! Remember two seconds ago when you foiled my latest plan? I do!
(the screen flashes back to Perry kicking Doofenshmirtz out of his chair)
Doofenshmirtz: (in flashback) What? How are we supposed to go over the- OOF! (it repeats as Doofenshmirtz laughs evilly) How are we supposed to go over the- OOF!
(the gnome topples over the summit and embeds itself in Vanna's foot; she screams as Doofenshmirtz pulls a lever)
Doofenshmirtz: And now...! (the Backstory-inator starts to send the memories back to Doofenshmirtz) I can feel myself getting (his skin takes a red tint and his teeth become sharp) more e-e-evil!! (his laugh becomes deeper and he grows massive and muscular) Feel the doom!! Nothing can stop me now! (he picks up Perry with a claw-like hand and continues laughing; Perry pulls out his wallet and reveals pictures of the two of them, causing good memories to flow through the extraction helmet) Huh? Uh? NOOOOOO!!!!
(Song: "My Nemesis")
♪ My neme, neme, oooo... my neme, neme, neme ♪
♪ My neme, neme, oooo... my neme, neme, neme ♪
Platypus-Doofenshmirtz: Do you ever get tired of lugging this big tail around? ...Well, back at it, I guess.
♪ I used to sit alone doing evil all day, ♪
♪ But now I think that someone's gonna get in my way, ♪
♪ Yeah, the someone in my life that doesn't want me to exist ♪
♪ (My neme, neme, oooo... my neme, neme, neme) ♪
♪ And I feel fine cause I've got a nemesis ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I-I've got an even better best friend! It's clear to me that my best friend is Perry the Plat-OOF!
♪ My neme, neme, oooo... my neme, neme, neme ♪
♪ My neme, neme, oooo... my neme, neme, neme ♪
♪ Now I hate him, and he hates me, ♪
♪ What a wonderful animosity, ♪
♪ Besides his hat he wears no clothes, ♪
♪ Now I have someone to oppose... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Peter the Panda? And Perry the Platypus? You're working together to rescue me?
♪ Yes I have a nemesis! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Doofy-Doofy-Doofy, Doofy-Doofy-Doofy, Doofenshmirtz!
Doofenshmirtz: I want you to know that... you are appreciated, Perry the Platypus, you are appreciated.
♪ My neme, neme, oooo... my neme, neme, neme, ♪
♪ My neme, neme... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: You think I'm evil, right? (Perry gives him a grin) Thank you, Perry the Platypus. Thank you.
Doofenshmirtz: No! What have you done, Perry the Platypus? I'm getting less evil! (crashes into and smashes the Backstory-inator) Significantly sooooooo!! (returns to normal) Darn it, I really liked that shirt. (Perry hang glides away from the building) Curse you, Perry the Platypus! Okay, so I'll see you tomorrow, right?
Vanna: (leaving with the gnome still in her foot) I'm sending you a bill for the shoes. My boyfriend's a lawyer.
Doofenshmirtz: All right, Norm, let's get this place cleaned up. There's backstory all over the place.

End Credits
(In the Flynn-Fletcher backyard, Candace is still watching her brothers playing ping pong)
Candace: Uhh, fine, you've bored me into submission. (leaves)
Phineas: One million five hundred sixty-two thousand nine hundred seventy-two... One million five hundred sixty-two thousand nine hundred seventy-eight! (the ball stops over the net, hovering and glowing white) We did it! We've stored up enough kinetic energy; the quantum vortex should appear any second now. (the ball sucks the table, the boys, and the entire background up, leaving only a blank white screen; Candace walks on, hesitantly and frightened)
Candace: (looks around) ...Mom?



(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated at night)
Doofenshmirtz: (He laughs evilly) I got you now, Perry the Platypus! This is the most sophisticated trap that I have ever invented.(Chamber shows Agent P trapped) In fact, it's so escape-proof that- that I couldn't get that guy out.
(Chamber shows a skeleton in it)
Doofenshmirtz: So, I had to build a whole new trap to catch you. And of course, I had to buy a new plastic skeleton for Halloween. It's a pitiful existence I lead, Perry the Platypus. Do- Do you pity me? You should because I am pitiable. Everyone should pity me. Eh, you don't have to say pity too many times before it stops sounding like a word. Pity. Pity. Pit- See? That is only like two times and it's already just gobbledygook. Gobbledygook, too. I can't- I can't even get through that once. Gobbledy- Now see, I am not even consider the last syllable and it's already... (sighs) Great. Now, I am forgetting what I was talking about... Which is another reason to pity me! YEAH! Back on topic, baby! You see, I- I figured if I get myself big sad eyes, people would pity me and get me whatever I want. And to that end, behold! The Big-Sad-Eye-inator! You like it? It sums up a lot of juice, so I am running at night when the electricity is cheaper.
(Agent P struggles to free from the the trap)
Doofenshmirtz: But the nighttime is the right time for a party. A PITY PARTY! (He laughs) Here we go!
(Doofenshmirtz pulls lever of -inator, it begins to power up)
(Candace. Phineas. and Ferb are all sitting on the couch in their living room)
Candace: (On the phone) Don't worry about a thing Mom everything's under control.
Linda: (In the car with Lawrence) Thanks Candace. It's been too long since your father and I had a date night.
Lawrence: Thirteen days, twenty-two hours, and seventeen minutes.
Linda: How do you know that?
Lawrence: I've got an app on my phone.
Candace: Don't worry about us, bye. (She hangs up) Parents are weird.
Phineas: Yes, yes they are.
Doofenshmirtz: It takes a while to get warmed up, but we're almost there.
(The -inator shoots Doofenshmirtz, but draws enough power to plunge Danville into a blackout)
Doofenshmirtz: See I told you it took up a lot of juice.
(the lights in the Flynn-Fletcher household's living room go out)
Candace: What happened?
Phineas: I think we blew a fuse.
Candace: Don't get all technical on me, just fix it.
Phineas: Relax Candace, Ferb and I'll check the fuse box. In the mean time you go find a flashlight.
Candace: Okay. Find a flashlight, find a flashlight.
Phineas: Hey Ferb, isn't it cool how you can still see people's eyes in -- (doesn't see Ferb) Ferb? Where'd you go?
(Ferb opens his eyes)
Phineas: Oh-ho! You prankster.
Candace: I know we have a flashlight in here somewhere. (begins feeling around in a drawer) Oh, okay, that's a stapler, Oh! Scissors. And, what is this, an old banana? Eww. What happened to all the flashlights? Ah-ha! (The flashlight flickers out) Darn, the batteries are dying. I better conserve them. Phineas? Ferb? (trips) Oh who leaves a chair right next to a table?
(Outside...)
Phineas: Looks like the whole town's in a blackout.
Buford: What'cha dooooin'?
Phineas: Isabella? Your voice sounds horrible.
Buford: Fooled ya'! It's me, Buford! And my voice isn't horrible, it's raspy! You gotta spend hours screamin' in the closet to get it like this. Hours!
Isabella: Hey Phineas, what'cha dooooin'?
Phineas: There's the original. I'm glad your here Isabella. Ferb and I are working on something that will give us all the best blackout ever!
Baljeet: Can I help?
Phineas: Sure you can Baljeet.
Buford: Hey Baljeet.
Baljeet: Hey Buford, your voice is so raspy. It sounds as if sandpaper and a washboard had a baby.
Buford: See, closet time's paying off.
Phineas: Okay guys let's get to work.
(they start to work, Candace arrives)
Candace: Hey, hold it right there. Who else is back here? Roll call.
Phineas: Well there's Ferb, Isabella, Buford, Baljeet and me. Oh, and there's that kid in the corner with the eyepatch.
Kid with Eyepatch: (spookly) But is it my left eye, or my right eye? You don't know.
Candace: (On the phone) Hi Mom, yeah we're okay. In fact I was just about to call you. I can't see what Phineas and Ferb are making but I'm sure it's bustable.
Linda: Well, it'll have to wait. Traffic lights are out all over the city. Of course you know I'd like nothing better than to give up my special time with your father, to run home and not see what they may, or may not have done.
Lawrence: I can't remember were you always this sarcastic?
Linda: Shh.
Candace: They're using a wench Mom. They're making something huge, and (Candace trips and loses her phone, to a mechanical buzzing)
Buford: Candace found the wood chipper guys.
Candace: My phone!
Linda: Oh, we got disconnected. Now who's going to grate on my nerves all night?
Lawrence: Oh, so you have always been this sarcastic.
Linda: Oh that's right, it's going to be you.
Lawrence: You betcha, Duckie.
Candace: One way or another, I'm going to see what all you eyeballs are making back here.
Phineas: Sure, I want everyone to see, including Perry. Hey, where's Perry?
♪ Doofenshmirtz isn't illuminated! ♪
(Doofenshmirtz's eyes are bigger and have a sad look due to the effects of the Big-Sad-Eye-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: A blackout? Oh, Perry the Platypus isn't this wonderful? Now people can't see anything but my pitiful eyes. Look at them, Perry the Platypus, don't you feel sorry for me? Don't my sad, lugubrious eyes illicit compassion and mercy? (He pauses) Your secret agent training has taught you to squint well my nemesis. But you can't fight the power of these pathetic, pleading eyes. I guess you can, 'cause you're heartless Perry the Platypus. You know that? Where you're heart should be, a big empty sack of nothing. But the common man will not be able to. I'm going to go find someone on the street and test these babies out. And you're coming with me. Here come on. It's a good thing I put wheels on this trap. Try to keep up.
Phineas: Somebody hand me that wrench.
Isabella: The power transformer is online.
Baljeet: It's a good thing you had this bicycle-powered generator.
Phineas: We like to be prepared for any eventuality. Thanks for pedaling by the way.
Baljeet: Buford was supposed to take over half an hour ago. But I cannot find him anywhere!
Buford: And you're not gonna.
Baljeet: Buford, is that you?
Buford: No.
Candace: Come on you stupid thing, work! (The flashlight turns on) There. Now where is it? (sees a glimpse of mechanical arms) What the -- ? (The flashlight goes out) Ugh, stupid thing. What are you guys building?
(Isabella's, Baljeet's, and Buford's eyes appear above Candace)
Candace: An anti-gravity device?
Phineas: Nah, that's just the crane. Tighten the servomotor.
Isabella: Aye-aye.
Candace: I'm going to fell my way through this. Okay, this feels like, metal. And this is some kind of wooden railing. Ooh, mushy-squshy.
Phineas: We're not using any "mushy-squshy" stuff. But that's Perry's favorite spot.
Candace: Okay, gross. Can you just tell me what you're building?
Phineas: I'd love to. But it's kinda hard to put into words. You really just have to experience it.
Candace: Fine. Fire it up.
Phineas: Great. Put on this helmet. And this mouthguard. And this lead apron. Arms up... and you're ready to go.
(Candace gets lifted up into the invention)
Candace: Okay, okay, this isn't so -- (gets flung around) BAAAAAAAAAAD!
(Song: "What Is This Thing?")
♪What is this thing that keeps dragging me around?♪
♪Is it mechanical, I recognize the sound,♪
♪And I'd give anything to be back on the ground♪
♪What is this thing?♪
♪What is this thing? Yeah.♪
♪What is this thing? Is it just a state of mind?♪
♪If this is Venice, then I've gone Venetian blind♪
♪I think my sanity is starting to unwind,♪
♪What is this thing?♪
♪What is this thing? Yeah.♪
♪What is this thing?♪
♪What is this thing? Yeah.♪
♪Is it a car wash or a pair of ankle weights?♪
♪Is it a ninja or commemorative plates?♪
♪There's a phrase that comes to mind,♪
♪I'm not sure that it translates,♪
♪¿Qué es esto?♪
♪What is this thing? Yeah.♪
♪What is this thing?♪
♪What is this thing? Yeah♪
Phineas: Wow Candace, we never thought of riding it before.
Candace: I think I swallowed the mouth-guard.
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, Perry the Platypus, I see someone. You'll understand the power of my sad eyes when you see them in action. You ready? Watch this. Excuse me?
Man: Oh, you look so sad. I feel, I feel so sorry for you. What can I do? Here take this. There. And as soon as I find my home, I'll come back and give you more free stuff. You poor, poor thing.
Doofenshmirtz: You see? And I don't even know what it is.
Man 2: Sir, your eyes, they compel me to help. Let me contribute. Here.
Doofenshmirtz: Thank you kind sir. Why is it all warm?
Woman: Your eyes bring out my mercy.
Doofenshmirtz: Don't they just?
Man 3: Here, take all I have.
Doofenshmirtz: You gave me a wig?
Man 3: No.
Crowd: Here take this. Ooh take that. Please take this. Here have my wallet. My toaster. My watermelon.
Man 4: Oh let's all go get him some more stuff.
Man 5: Jetpack squad away!
(The squad flies off)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, if it worked on that jetpack squad, I bet ya it'll work on my brother, Roger! He'll take pity on me, and make me mayor! And that's just a hop, skip and a jump from having people give me the whole Tri-State Area!
Major Monogram: (On Perry's wristwatch communicator) Thank goodness your wrist communicator is still working Agent P. We traced the blackout to the Danville power plant on 5th street. I know you're busy with Doofenshmirtz, and you don't normally handle stuff like this, but I was in the middle of microwaving a burrito, and center is still totally frozen. Just figured you were close, and uh... Hurry Agent P. it's, it's kind of scary in here, and I'm all alone.(There is a crash sound) Carl? C-Carl, is that you?
Candace: How can I bust you if I don't know what you've made? (A car horn sounds twice) Dad's unmistakable, two honk horn signal. They're home! Mom! Dad! You're home!.
Linda: Hi sweetie. The restaurant was closed because of the blackout.
Lawrence: What's all that noise?
Candace: Phineas and Ferb made a dangerous...thing in the backyard, in the dark. Oh this stupid fence! Why do we have this stupid fence? Dad, tear down this fence!
Linda: What do you think, should we tear down this fence?
Lawrence: That's that sarcasm I like.
Candace: You can feel what they made. Come on!
Linda: Candace, my arm!
Doofenshmirtz: You, you know Perry the Platypus, I d- I didn't realize this trap would be so heavy. City Hall is still a few blocks away, you wouldn't mind if I just leave you here, do you? Hello?
(Doofenshmirtz shakes the trap, and Perry's eyes fall off)
Doofenshmirtz: Where's Perry... the Platypus?
(At the power plant, Perry flips a switch, and all the power is restored)
Worker 1: That's all it was? That big red switch over there?
Worker 2: You think I would've know that. I mean I got a Ph.D.
Worker 1: You work that into every conversation.
(Cut to the backyard, Candace leads Linda in)
Candace: Okay, can you feel it Mom? Can you feel it?
Linda: I feel something...pointy.
(The lights turn back on; Linda is holding Phineas' nose)
Phineas: You're right Ferb. (He and Ferb take off the sunglasses they were wearing) We're cooler, even in the dark.
Linda: Hi boys.
Candace: Wait! Where is that incredibly, huge, and dangerous thing that you built?
Phineas: A bunch of guys on jetpacks came by and asked if they could have it. So we gave it to them.
Linda: Oh you boys are so cute.
Candace: But what was it? What was it?!
(At City Hall)
Roger: So why is it that you think I'm just going to hand over my mayorship to you?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, because I've got these big sad eyes.
(On the end of this, Doofenshmirtz shows Roger his eyes, which are sticking out of his head, and bloodshot)
Roger: Yeah, and they're kind of freaking me out.
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, I guess it probably works better in the dark. Look, it's the jetpack squad.
Man: Here sad eyed man, we brought you this.
(Doofenshmirtz gets crushed by Phineas and Ferb's creation)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, I think I swallowed my mouth guard.

End Credits
(Song: "What Is This Thing?")
♪What is this thing? Is it just a state of mind?♪
♪If this is Venice, then I've gone Venetian blind♪
♪I think my sanity is starting to unwind,♪
♪What is this thing?♪
♪What is this thing? Yeah.♪
♪What is this thing?♪
♪What is this thing? Yeah.♪
♪Is it a car wash or a pair of ankle weights?♪
♪Is it a ninja or commemorative plates?♪
♪There's a phrase that comes to mind,♪
♪I'm not sure that it translates,♪
♪¿Qué es esto?♪
♪What is this thing? Yeah.♪
♪What is this thing?♪
♪What is this thing? Yeah♪



(wide shot of Danville, covered in snow; cut to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb. Open the floodgates. (Ferb turns the hose open and water comes out from the sprinklers): What do you think?
(The yard has been transformed into an ice hockey rink)
Baljeet: It is like our own miniature Canada! But, of course, without the beavers, moose, and disproportionate number of comedians.
Phineas: Or Canadian bacon.
Buford: I forgot all about Canadian bacon.
Baljeet: You realize it is only ham.
Candace: (Off-screen) Phineas! (Walks on screen) And Ferb! You are so busted!
(Lawrence crosses the screen spinning around the ice rink)
Lawrence: Hello, boys, splendid job on the hockey rink. (He crashes into a snowbank) Well, that was amusing.
Phineas: Great skating, Dad!
Lawrence: Boys, I've got some good news for you. I've arranged for you to play a little exhibition match between the periods of the Danville Ice Trays game.
Phineas: Oh, you mean like at halftime?
Lawrence: Well, it's three periods, so it's really two-thirds time.
Buford: Bland sports terms. That's what keeping the Canadians down.
Phineas: If we're going to be the entertainment, then we'd better kick it up a notch. Hockey Z-9?
Ferb: Hockey Z-9.
Buford: Oh, like Football X-7.
Baljeet: What happened to Y-8?
Phineas: Oh, we're saving that for croquet. Ferb, grab your toolbox. We've got work to do. (they exit)
Candace: (scoffs) What's the big deal with hockey anyway?
Lawrence: Well, it's hard to explain actually, taking the flip pass from the winner, shoulder deking the defense men, and then, tossing it right over the old glove hand. Oh, it just takes hold of you like a fever!
Candace: Did you play a lot of hockey in England there, Dad?
Lawrence: Never once.
Jeremy: (off-screen) Hey, Candace. (walks right on-screen behind Candace)
Candace: Oh, hi, Jeremy.
Jeremy: What a great ice rink.
Candace: Wouldn't it just be perfect for figure skating?
Jeremy: (as Candace says "figure skating") Ice hockey!
Candace: What? Oh yeah. Ice hockey.
Jeremy: I didn't know that you were a hockey fan, Candace.
Candace: (chuckles) You betcha! Flipping over win passes, and then shoulder dorkin' the old jazz hands. It's like some kind of disease!
Jeremy: Uh... yeah.
Lawrence: Say, Jeremy, why don't you join us at the exhibition game today?
Jeremy: Sounds like fun.
Candace: Oh yeah. Sounds like... (makes phone noise) BRRRRING!! Oh, hey. I got a phone call from, um... a real person. Gotta go. (walks out of backyard, calling Stacy on her phone) Stacy, we have a Code Teal.
Stacy: (looking at a color wheel) Locusts? Are you sure?
Candace: No, wait. I mean Code Periwinkle.
Stacy: Periwinkle. A hockey emergency? I'm on it!
Candace: Speaking of periwinkle, where is Perry?

(Perry enters his lair through an elevator in a shack on a frozen pond)
Major Monogram: Carl, I'm freezing. Did you call that repair guy yet?
Carl: I left him a message, sir. I think he went to Aruba for winter break.
Major Monogram: Lucky dog. It's cold in... Oh! Agent P! Didn't hear you come in. I have no idea what Doofenshmirtz is up to. It seems all of our computers froze. Isn't that right, Carl?
Carl:  (is seen with his hands inside an ice-encased computer) Tech support says everything is fine.
Major Monogram: Well, I'm sure whatever Doof is up to, he's probably much warmer than we are, and that alone should be reason to stop him! Good luck, Agent P! (Perry salutes and exits his lair)

(at the Danville Mountain Top Winter Arena)
Dink Winkerson: Welcome, hockey hounds, to the hypothermic hippodrome of Danville Mountain Top Winter Arena where our own Danville Ice Trays will cross sticks with the combative cross-town contenders. Reigning over the skating skirmish tonight as guest referee is Hockey Hall of Famer, Luc Robitaille!
Luc Robitaille: Is anyone else cold? Why is it so cold in here?
Audience: We don't know, Luc Robitaille!
Man in audience: Actually, I brought a blanket. So, I'm okay.
(Song: F-Games (instrumental))
Lawrence: Here we are.
Linda: Oh, this is so exciting! I've always wanted to be a hockey mom.
Candace: Excuse me for a second. (walks out and presses bluetooth button) System check. Stacy, can you read me?
Stacy: (on headphones talking to Candace) I've got the hockey reference manuals, league website, and official rules up and ready!
Ginger: Stacy, Mom said it's my turn to use the computer!
Stacy: Not now, Ginger. I'm busy.
Ginger: Don't make me open a can of whipped cream on you! Or however that goes.

♪ Doofenshmirtz evil igloo on a mountain top, eh? ♪
(Perry parachutes from an airplane down the igloo's chimney)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus! (on an ice chair holding a mug of hot chocolate) Come in! How do you like my evil igloo hideout up in the Danville Mountains? Would you like some hot cocoa? No? Then, how about a marshmallow! (Doofenshmirtz launches a giant marshmallow out of his cocoa mug, trapping Perry) Ha. Ha! Trapped you again! I think I figured out why I haven't been able to take over the Tri-State Area. I've been too much of a nice guy. Nice guys can't take over large metropolitan areas, except for Roger. But, we're not talking about Roger. I've got to get mean. (Doofenshmirtz slides his chair across the igloo's floor; his cocoa mug falls and breaks) I've got to get ugly and possibly hairy. (Doofenshmirtz's chair slides past a picture of the abominable snowman) I've got to learn to be more like the abominable snowman. (chair crashes; a cat screeches) So, I decided to build this! Behold, the Abominable-nat... The, the Abominama... The A-bom-in-a-ble-i-nat-or. See, I can only say it if I speak slowly. The Abominable... Inator. Oh look, if I, if I separate it, it works. The Abominable Inator! It makes whatever it hits bigger and scarier and hairier. Anyhoo, behold. (removes cover from the Abominable-inator, which is covered in a huge scarf and knitted cap; Perry looks unimpressed) Okay, I know what you're thinking: "Why the silly little stocking cap and scarf?" The truth is, I, uh... I had some yarn.

(back at the hockey arena)
Dink: And the blare of the buzzer brings down the metaphorical curtain on the scintillating second period of this titanic tussle as the grim, gritty gladiators vacate the frozen field of flailing, fighting flugelhorn to prepare for the third period of this tellican, turf-toes tower as the frosty defibrillators mill the frozen peems of icy... (gasps) Oh, man. I better go lay down.
Candace: So when all the members of the offending team clear the defensive zone at the same time, the delayed offset call is negated.
Jeremy: Wow, you really do know hockey.
Candace: Are you kidding? Did you know a referee makes most penalty calls-
Stacy: (to Candace over the phone, reading from a rulebook) While the linesmen may call only obvious technical infractions. (to Ginger) Go away!
Candace: Obvious technical infractions. Go away. The player who committed the infraction is no give me that. No Ginger, I'm busy. I said give me that back. If you don't give that back to me right now, Candace, gotta go.
(Candace smiles nervously after realizing what she said)
Dink: Now for your entertainment, what we've all been waiting for: Little Kids On Ice!
Linda: This is so exciting! (her camera beeps) Oh, I forgot to charge the battery. Oh no, I can't miss this photo op! Where is the gift shop?!
Lawrence: Uh, it's way over there, on the other side of the arena.
Linda: I'll be right back.

(back at Doofenshmirtz's igloo; the Abominable-inator is loaded onto a sled)
Doofenshmirtz: Behold, Perry the Platypus, as I make myself abominable. (Doof presses the button on the -inator's remote. The -inator's beam bounces off the igloo and hits the marshmallow trapping Perry, causing it to burst and splatter all over Doofenshmirtz.) Ooh, it's all marshmallow-y and hairy. Not completely unlike summer camp. Apparently, you gotta aim this thing a little better... (the -inator shoots a beam directly at Doof's rear end) Whoa! Owww! Hmmm, something's not right in the hinterland. (his bottom suddenly becomes large and hairy, causing him to fall on the front of the sled) Yikes! Oof! (the igloo slides off the mountain top and hits a rock, causing it to break; Perry flies into the air and grabs the scarf trailing from the -inator)

(back at the arena)
Phineas: (skating onto the ice with Ferb) Okay, Ferb, looks like we're on.
(Ferb pulls a lever, plunging the arena into darkness; the scoreboard, instead of showing the score, now displays "HOCKEY Z 9")
Announcer: Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to be transported to a world where everything you know is changed into a global, glacial dystopia. (large, flaming ice sculptures rise up from the rink) If you're looking for something fluffy, forget it, pal, because this is the future, where the only things left are hard, cold, and in most cases pointy. It's a world where the only way to survive is to play hockey while things blow up around you. It's a world of skillful skating (Baljeet skates into a spotlight) and incredible ice ramps, (Django launches off a ramp into the rink) puck-pushing prowess (Buford enters, crashing through some barrels) and savage stone gladiators. (Phineas and Ferb skate into the center of the rink)
Candace: Oh, this is so bustable! (to Linda's now-empty seat) Mom, D... Where's Mom?
Lawrence: She went to the gift shop to buy a disposable camera.
Candace: What the heck is that?

(cut to the gift shop; David, not getting the concept, is behind the counter)
Linda: It's a camera, that you send away to get the film part developed, and then you take the non-film camera-only part, and you throw it away.
David: What the heck is film?
Linda: (completely exasperated) Would you please just look in the back?

(back to the Hockey Z-9 arena)
Announcer: This is the harsh, hybrid hockey of your dark, dystopian destiny.
(cut to the PA booth; the announcer is revealed to be Isabella)
Isabella: (in her announcer voice) Hockey Z-9! (in her normal voice) Thanks, Dink! Gotta get on the ice!
(Song: Hockey Z-9)
Hockey Hooligans: ♪ Oh yeah! ♪
♪ Don't turn away, I'm talking to you, sir ♪
♪ 'Bout the post-apocalyptic sport of the future ♪
♪ You'll be skating amok, with curved sticks and a puck ♪
♪ Put your doctor on speed dial, 'cause you're gonna need sutures ♪
♪ Shoulder pads and blades, curling stones for sweepin' ♪
♪ Hockey Z-9 ♪
♪ Hockey Z-9 ♪
♪ It's as far as you can go, alphabetically speakin' ♪
♪ It's a game with a brand new name ♪
♪ Hockey Z-9 ♪
♪ Hockey Z-9 ♪
♪ Hockey Z-9 ♪
♪ Hockey Z-9 ♪
♪ Yeah! ♪
♪ Yeah! ♪
♪ Yeah! ♪
♪ Hockey Z-9! ♪

(back on the mountain with the sliding Abominable-inator)
Doofenshmirtz: (as the sled goes off a ramp) Aaaaugh!! (Perry climbs up the scarf and lands on the front of the sled as Doof's feet grow big and hairy, causing his shoes to fly off) Oh, my feet! Now it's working. (several more pops are heard as Doof becomes completely abominable) Hey, not bad. A little hairy, but not bad. Now, to deal with you! (Doof grabs for Perry, who darts under his legs) Gotcha! Hey, where'd you go? (Perry tugs on Doof's back hair) Oh, there you are. (Perry beckons Doof to come closer) Yes? (Perry punches Doof, whose head causes the Abominable-inator to point upwards) Ow! Ow, Oh, stupid thing! (Doof attempts to adjust the -inator, but it hits him in the head again) Ow! (the -inator fires)

(back at the arena)
Candace: (trying to enter the rink) 'Scuse me, I gotta get through here.
Luc Robitaille: Whoa, whoa, whoa. You're not allowed out there.
Candace: But I gotta go get my mom, and this is the shortcut to the gift shop!
Luc Robitaille: I'm sorry, you can't go out there. That's for players only.
Candace: Players, huh?
Luc Robitaille: You're gonna go get a uniform and try to get out there, aren't you?
Candace: Is that a problem?
Luc Robitaille: No, as long as we're clear on the concept.
(in the gift shop; David has opened a box marked "80's")
David: Hey, look at that! There was one in our "disposable stuff from the 80's" box.
Linda: Thanks, David. (runs out)
David: Let me know if you need more things to throw away!

(back on Doofenshmirtz's sled)
Doofenshmirtz: Where the heck... hey, how'd you get over there? Don't do that! (Perry pries a board off the sled) Oh man! (Perry jumps off the sled and uses the board as a snowboard, grinding a rail while traveling down the mountain) Okay, now you're just showing off! (Perry spots trees ahead and snowboards off to the right) What? Is there something I should... AAAHHHH!! (Doof crashes into the top of a tree, bending it down) I fail to see how this could get any worse. (Doof's head turns back to normal) Oof! (the rest of Doof's body turns back to normal; now lighter, the tree catapults Doof into the distance) Curse you, Perry the Platypus! (trails off)

(the Abominable-inator fires one more time before tumbling off a cliff; the beam hits a Zamboni, which becomes abominable)
Zamboni driver: Okay, I'm pretty sure that's not supposed to happen. Mr. Stevens! (runs into the arena) Mr. Stevens, I'm having trouble with the equipment! (the abominable Zamboni enters the arena)
Linda: (walking through a crowd of cheering fans with foam fingers) Sorry. Excuse me. Yes, you are Number One. Excuse me. Sorry. Pardon me. Alright, alright, al... excuse me!
Phineas: (noticing the abominable Zamboni) Aw, check it out, a monster ice-polishing machine! Okay everyone, looks like we're done, let's get out of here. (the abominable Zamboni clears the rink back to normal and exits the arena, revealing the kids and Luc Robitaille in a perfect picture pose)
Linda: Oh my gosh. That is the cutest thing I've ever seen. Everyone say "Canadian bacon!"
Phineas, Ferb, Buford, Baljeet, Isabella, Django, Luc Robitaille: Ham! (Linda takes the picture)
Luc Robitaille: Great job, kids. (Candace skates onto the ice behind them, dressed in full hockey gear) That was the weirdest game of hockey I've ever seen.
Phineas: Thanks, Mr. Robitaille! (the kids skate off the rink)
Candace: Okay, I'm all set to sneak across the ice.
Luc Robitaille: Go ahead. Hockey Z-9 is over. (skates away)
Candace: What? No! Mom, they had giant dangerous... with a... (snaps hockey stick over thigh) It's not fair! (throws down gloves, gets into fighting stance) It's so not fair!
Luc Robitaille: (skating back; blows his whistle) Unsportsmanlike behavior! (points to the penalty box)
Candace: (skates there) Fine.
(Candace is sitting in the penalty box)
Jeremy: Wow, Candace, I had a really good time. You want to get something to eat?
Candace: Oh, that sounds like fun! But give me two minutes. (notices Perry sitting next to her) Oh, there you are Perry.
(Perry chatters)

End Credits
(standalone broadcasts only, shown on Disney XD UK)
(Song: "Perry the Platypus")
Male Singer: ♪ He's a semi-aquatic, egg-laying mammal of action ♪
Backing scat: ♪ Dooby dooby doo-bah ♪
♪ Dooby dooby doo-bah ♪
Male Singer: ♪ He's a furry little flatfoot, who'll never flinch from a fray........! ♪
♪ He's got more than just mad skill, ♪
Female Singer: ♪ Wah-ah-ah ♪
Male Singer: ♪ He's got a beaver tail and a bill ♪
Female Singer: ♪ Ah-ah ♪
Male Singer: ♪ And the women swoon whenever they hear him say: ♪
(Perry chatters, women faint)
Male Singer: ♪ He's Perry! Perry the Platypus! ♪



(The words "Happy New Year!" appear in a twinkling font in the sky; the camera pans down to the Garcia-Shapiros' driveway)
Vivian: Have fun at the party!
Linda: (in her car) Thanks for having the boys over tonight, Vivian.
Vivian: Oh, no problem, Linda. I have all the neighborhood kids tonight.
Candace: (in the back seat of the car) C'mon, c'mon, I don't want to be late for my first grown-up party!
Linda: Heh. Okay, hun. Bye everyone! Happy New Year!
Phineas: Bye guys!
Isabella, Buford, Baljeet, Vivian: Goodbye!
Phineas, Isabella, Buford, Baljeet, Vivian: Happy New Year!
Isabella: We're gonna have so much fun! We've got noisemakers, balloons, confetti...
Vivian: And of course, we'll all stay up till midnight and watch the New Year's Eve ball drop!
Buford: Baljeet's already out! (elbowing Baljeet, who is asleep standing up) Wake up, will ya! You're drooling all over my arm!
Baljeet: You know, saliva is 98% water and the other 2% is made up of very beneficial electrolytes. It is gross, but it is science.
Buford: You're lucky the gross factor outweighs the science factor, or you'd have a one-way ticket to wedgie town!
Phineas: Well, it'll be fun to finally see the ball drop.
Vivian: Oh, it's a wonderful tradition!
Isabella: And, of course, there's the other tradition of kissing someone special at midnight.
Phineas: Well then, I know what we're going to do tonight.
Isabella: Really?
Phineas: Yeah! We're gonna make our own New Year's ball and drop it from outer space!
(Isabella frowns)
Vivian: Your mother is right, Phineas. You have such an active imagination!
Isabella: (dryly) Not active enough.
Vivian: I'm going to make some hot chocolate. You kids come in when you want to warm up. Hey, where's your platypus?

(Perry lifts a patch of ice in the backyard and drops down into his lair)
Major Monogram: (wearing a winter knit cap) Morning, Agent P. Sorry about the cold climate inside your lair; see, the heating system is on the fritz and we had to call a guy in from Aruba, but I can assure you that we are all in the same boat here. (Perry is now completely frozen in ice, except for his bill) You're not alone in this; we are all sharing the pain, and... (a beach ball hits the background, which drops, revealing that Monogram is in Aruba) Heh heh heh, awk-ward.
Carl: Race ya to the wet ski!
Major Monogram: Um, uh, Doof's doing something in City Hall, uh, put a stop to whatever it is. (running after Carl) Hey Carl, I get the blue one!
'(Perry frozenly chatters)

(Scene shifts to the backyard at the Flynn-Fletcher house)
(Song: Quirky Worky Song)
Isabella: Okay, Phineas, we're good to go!
Phineas: Great. Bring her down! How's the soldering going up there?
Baljeet: Ferb is almost done.
Phineas: How are you doing, Buford?
Buford: Why do I have to paint? Painting is for babies and beatniks!
Phineas: That's no ordinary paint. It's a super-sealer that will protect us from the cold, dark vacuum of space!
Buford: Beatnik talk!
Irving: (followed by the Fireside Girls and two other kids, all staring in awe at the ball) Hey, Phineas. Mind if we see the inside?
Phineas: Not at all! (They enter; each room is shown as Phineas mentions it) Check it out! A multi-level New Year's ball with punch bowl sailing...
Isabella: Ahoy!
Phineas: ...balloon room, the bed of a thousand coats, an infinity slide, and through here, the grand ballroom! In other words, a ball within a ball!
Irving: Whoa!
Phineas: Irving?
Irving: (on the infinity slide) How do I get out of here?!

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Norm: Happy New Year!
Doofenshmirtz: Norm, I told you: You don't celebrate 'til midnight, not all day. What if midnight never comes? Then you've squandered a whole day celebrating. Think of that, tough guy? (crashing sound is heard) Perry the Platypus? (the floor opens up below Perry, trapping him in the top of a bottle) Ha-ha! It's a bottle of sparkling cider trap, and you're the cork! Which makes you Perry the Cork-apus! Ha-ha, you got a funny name. Anyway, it's New Year's-themed!
Norm: Happy New Year!
Doofenshmirtz: Not yet, Norm. And on to my plan: I recently learned that in most of the world, there's a tradition where people decide to change something about their lives in the coming year, and they call it "a New Year's resolution." I-I-I had no idea; you see, back in Drusselstein, change was frowned upon. Any change!
(Flashback of young Doofenshmirtz in front of his TV, being closely watched by a guard)
Doofenshmirtz: (voice over) Uh, you couldn't change your channel on your TV,...
(Flashback of young Doofenshmirtz dropping a flower into his pants)
Doofenshmirtz: (voice over) ...you couldn't change your underwear,...
(Flashback of young Doofenshmirtz in jail with two tough-looking criminals)Doofenshmirtz: (voice over)...and forget about changing your hairstyle; you... you'd end up in jail.
(All three people in jail are shown with odd hairstyles; flashbacks end.)
Doofenshmirtz: But here in the new world, we embrace change! (beat) Apparently. And that's why I came up with the Resolution Changer-inator! Cleverly disguised as a bow tie! When I turn it on at the stroke of midnight, it will make everyone change their resolution from whatever it was, like, I don't know, "I-I'm gonna lose weight," or, "gain a limb," or whatever, to, "I'm going to make Heinz Doofenshmirtz my leader and obey his every command." That will be their new resolution. (puts the Resolution Changer-inator on) All right, Norm, how do I look?
Norm: Like a pharmacist in a bow tie!
Doofenshmirtz: Eh, good enough. Time to go. (Norm blows a noisemaker) You're squandering, Norm!
(Scene shifts to the exterior of City Hall)
Lawrence: (entering the party at City Hall with Linda) Ready to get your party on, dear?
Linda: Do one-legged ducks swim in circles?
Candace: (entering the party with Stacy) Wow, first year with the adults!
Stacy: Yep, we're all grown up now. No more pigtails, dollies, or obsessing over boys.
Candace: From now on, we obsess over men. (Candace and Stacy laugh) And no more busting!
Stacy: Attagirl.
Candace: Yep, I'm sticking to my resolution and turning over a new leaf. Fifteen whole minutes and I haven't thought of Phineas and Ferb. (her eye starts twitching) How they make those things. You know, those big, like, dangerous things they make...
Stacy: Candace...
Candace: Sorry! I'm back, I'm back. Resolution... kicking in. Oh look, here come the boys!
Stacy: You mean men? (Candace and Stacy laugh)
Jeremy: (walking up to them with Coltrane) Ladies.
Stacy: That's us! We're ladies.
(Back at D.E.I., Perry bounces the big sparkling cider bottle repeatedly until the pressure bursts him out and cider sprays into the air)
Norm: Carbonation is fun!
(Scene shifts back to City Hall)
Doofenshmirtz: (entering the party) Hello, Danville! (running up to a man) Hey you there, what's your New Year's resolution?
Mustached man: To update my mustache.
Doofenshmirtz: That's what you think! (walking away) Ha-HA-ha-ha! HA-ha!
Mustached man: I don't know; it seemed achievable.
Candace: (sitting at a table with Stacy) This is so great, being here as an adult. (giggles) Heh-heh. Not like my brothers. Who are kids. Who are probably building something, and it's something big...
Stacy: Candace...
Candace: Big and bustable... Gotta go!
Stacy: Oh no you don't! This is gonna be a new year with a new Candace! Remember?
Candace: (trying to resist, gripping the table) Gotta bust. G-g-g-gotta-g-g-gotta bu-bu-bu-bust! (breaks off two chunks of the table) Bust!
Stacy: (as Candace keeps chattering) It's okay. It's just a temporary relapse.
Jeremy: (walking up with Coltrane, holding a tray with four glasses of sparkling cider on it) Candace? Stacy told me about your New Year's resolution.
Candace: Iiiiii... I need a timeout. I'll be right back!
Jeremy: Relapse?
Stacy: Relapse.
Doofenshmirtz: (to a woman) That's what you think! Ha-HA-ha-ha-ha! Oh, it never stops being... (gasps as Perry enters)
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? You can't come in here; this is a black-tie affair. (Perry closes the door, then reenters wearing a half of a tux)
♪ Perry again! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Actually, I guess it doesn't really specify pants anywhere, so I guess you're okay.
Lawrence: (to Linda) Oh, and another little tidbit about the ancient Egyptians (Doofenshmirtz and Perry run past them in the background) is that both men and women wore makeup.
Linda: Just like the '80s.
Candace: (in the ladies bathroom, washing her face with cold water) Hbrbrbrbrbr... Hold it together, girl. You can do this.
Sandwich woman's friend: Hey, I thought your New Year's resolution was to stop eating sandwiches in the bathroom.
Sandwich woman: (eating a large sandwich) But it's not midnight yet, so I can still enjoy this.
Candace: Not midnight yet? That's it! I've actually got an hour left to bust my brothers! (running out of City Hall) I've gotta find out what they're doing! I'll get video. Whoa! Ooh! (slips and falls on a patch of ice) Aah! Aah!! (skids down an alleyway, bounces off a pillow and goes flying) Aah!!! (swings around a street lamp's pole and lands on her feet) Ooh! Huh, that parkour training actually paid off.
(Scene shifts to the interior of the giant ball)
Phineas: All right, let's start this bash in a ball! (pulls a lever)
Kids: Yay! (they all throw confetti)
Candace: (gasping) Huh, huh... (sees the ball rise) No, I missed it! And how am I gonna show Mom?
Irving: (standing next to a camera set-up) No worries! I'm live-blogging the whole event on my podcast! We're trending right now!
Candace: Right now? (into the camera) Hey, all of you out there in Internet Land! Watch closely, because I'm gonna bust Phineas and Ferb. (leaves)
Irving: (into the camera) Hee hee hee! She never busts them. (into the camera again) And Internet Land is not a real place!
(Scene shifts back to City Hall)
Doofenshmirtz: (runs through a curtain into a room filled with coats) What is this, the coat room? (Perry launches himself from behind the coats into Doofenshmirtz, who goes flying into a rack of coats; he emerges with a pink hat and coat on) All right, Perry the Platypus, if you really want to fight, here I a... (Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz into another coat rack) Ooh, Cashmere. Nice.
Candace: (re-enters City Hall, gasping)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. I got you a glass of sparkling cider.
Candace: Raincheck! This is my last time to bust!
Jeremy: Serious relapse.
Candace: Come on, Irving. (plugs her phone into the wall, switching the video feed to show Phineas and Ferb's ball) Yes! Everyone, can I have your attention please? (everyone turns to face Candace) My brothers and their friends will be dropping from outer space in that giant New Year's ball.
Crowd: Wow!
Man: Amazing!
Woman: Ooh, that's fantastic!
Candace: No, that's not fantastic! It, uh, okay, well, I-I admit it's impressive, but it's still bustable! Mooo-oommmm!!
Woman with pearls: If those were my boys, they'd be so busted.
Candace: Please! Adopt me now! AAAUUUGGGHHH! Mom!
(Scene shifts to the kids' party in the ball)
Phineas: Okay, it's almost midnight, let's go! (pushes lever and the ball drops)
Kids: (scream)
(Back at City Hall...)
Doofenshmirtz: (emerging from the coat room) Ha-HA! You'll never get out of that straitjacket. Why would anyone wear that to a New Year's Eve party? I guess maybe if you were a magician, maybe...
Man and woman: (running out of coat room) Only one minute 'til midnight!
Doofenshmirtz: Time to launch my pla-an! (runs on stage) Hee-hee-hee-hee-hee-hee!
(Perry runs out of coat room, removes the straitjacket, and grabs a chair, charging towards the stage with it; Doofenshmirtz gasps, but Perry merely puts the chair on the stage and sits down. He gestures to allow Doofenshmirtz to continue)
Crowd: 10! 9! 8!
Candace: Mom? Mom?
Crowd: 7! 6! 5!
Sandwich woman: (still eating the sandwich) Almost done!
Crowd: 4!
Candace: (sees Linda and Lawrence about to kiss in the courtyard) Mom! It's New Year's! This is no time for kissing!
Crowd: 3! (Phineas and Ferb's ball lands) 2! 1!
(Doofenshmirtz zaps the crowd with the Resolution Change-inator; the ball now reads "HAPPY NEW YEAR")
Crowd: Happy New Year!! (cheers)
Doofenshmirtz: (to Perry) Now watch this. (to crowd) What is everyone's New Year's resolution?
Crowd: To follow you, Heinz Doofenshmirtz, our new leader!
Doofenshmirtz: Ha-HA-ha-ha-ha! Mmmm, so, how does it feel to be a loser, Perry the Platypus? I mean, that's a rhetorical question. 'Course, if anyone should know how it feels, it should be me, but... (to crowd) All right, everyone! Follow me; we're taking over City Hall! (runs out of room; no one follows him, so he comes back in to find the crowd cheering) Hello? What are you doing? Obey me! Hey, wha-what about your resolution?
Man with party hat: (laughing) Everyone knows that no one ever keeps their New Year's resolution.
Doofenshmirtz: That doesn't even make any sense! Why would you make resolutions if you're not ever gonna fol... (to Perry) Did you know about this? You did! You knew about this and you still punched and kicked and pinched me. (Perry shrugs his shoulders) Ah, I guess you're right. That's... that is what we do. (Perry blows a noisemaker) Aw, thank you, Perry the Platypus. (Doofenshmirtz blows the noisemaker) Happy New Year.
(Song: Happy New Year)
Olivia Olson: ♪ You know it hasn't been bad ♪
♪ More happy than sad ♪
♪ But I tell you I'm glad ♪
♪ When I think about starting all over again ♪
♪ Yeah, I know what we did ♪
♪ But I don't think about then ♪
♪ That was a moment ♪
♪ But this is another ♪
♪ So I'm not gonna cry ♪
♪ When we say goodbye ♪
♪ To the year that is ♪
♪ Quickly receding ♪
♪ We're not gonna look back ♪
♪ We know we're on the right track ♪
♪ And we all know that time is fleeting ♪
♪ (Time is fleeting) ♪
♪ Time is fleeting ♪
♪ Because you know it's a new year ♪
♪ It's a brand new beginning ♪
♪ Another 365 ♪
♪ And the world keeps spinning ♪
♪ It's a new year ♪
♪ It's a time for celebration ♪
♪ The fun has just begun ♪
♪ Yeah, it's gonna be a Happy New Year ♪
♪ (Gonna be a Happy New Year) ♪
♪ (Gonna be a Happy New Year) ♪
♪ Gonna be a Happy New Year ♪
♪ (Gonna be a Happy New Year) ♪
♪ Gonna have a Happy New Year ♪
(remaining lyrics have dialogue over them)
♪ 'Cause you know it's a new year ♪
♪ It's a brand new beginning ♪
♪ Another 365 ♪
♪ And the world keeps spinning ♪
♪ It's a new year
♪ It's a time for celebration ♪
♪ The fun has just begun ♪
♪ Yes, gonna be a Happy New Year ♪
(the ball launches into space)
Baljeet: What is happening?
Phineas: Is this your doing, bro?
Ferb: "Auld Lang Syne" literally means "old long ago," but I'd rather think of New Year's as an unspoiled universe. (ball explodes into fireworks)
Phineas: I sure hope Candace can see the fireworks.
♪ (Gonna be a Happy New Year) ♪
♪ (Gonna be a Happy New Year) ♪
♪ Gonna be a Happy New Year ♪
Candace: (standing with Jeremy on a balcony, watching the fireworks) You know, I don't know if I'm gonna be able to keep this resolution.
Jeremy: That's okay. I like you just the way you are. Happy New Year, Candace.
Candace: Happy New Year, Jeremy.
(they kiss; fireworks go off reading "HAPPY NEW YEAR")'

End credits
(Song: Happy New Year)
♪ 'Cause you know it's a new year ♪
♪ It's a brand new beginning ♪
♪ Another 365 ♪
♪ And the world keeps spinning ♪
♪ It's a new year
♪ It's a time for celebration ♪
♪ The fun has just begun ♪
♪ Yes, gonna be a Happy New Year ♪
♪ (Gonna be a Happy New Year) ♪
♪ (Gonna be a Happy New Year) ♪
♪ Gonna be a Happy New Year ♪
Norm: (on D.E.I. balcony, holding an air conditioner; over last two lines of song) Happy New Year! (kisses air conditioner) Mwah!
♪ (Gonna be a Happy New Year) ♪
♪ Gonna have a Happy New Year ♪



(Scene opens up to the Flynn-Fletcher house; cut to Candace's room)
Candace: (On the phone) You'll never guess what I'm doing tonight.
Stacy: Well, you might be...
Candace: Going on a big date, but guess with whom?
Stacy: Obviously—
Candace: It's Jeremy. (Squeals) But you'll never guess where.
Stacy: (Sighs) I have no idea.
Candace: Neither do I. He says it's a surprise.
Stacy: Oh, lucky you.
Candace: The problem is if I don't know where we're going, I don't know what to wear.
Stacy: Oh! I know, Hair bows. They're all the rage this days. Just don't wear any feather-earrings, they're so last Tuesday.
Candace: (Puts feather-earrings down) Ah! Yeah, so last Tuesday, Ah hah. I-I would never wear something so Tuesdayish of last.
(Switches to backyard with the boys and gang)
Phineas: Well, seems the parts didn't arrive for our Zombie-robot pool table. Anybody have any other suggestions?
Buford: Hey, remember how we did that super Rollercoaster? How 'bout a super duper Rollercoaster?
(Everyone stares at him)
Baljeet: So, you are just adding a "duper" then?
Buford: It's an acceptable suffix.
Isabella: We did a Portal to Mars. Maybe...a Portal to Venus?
Baljeet: Hah! Only if they make SPF 12 million.
Buford: Okay-okay! How 'bout a super-super duper-duper-duper Rollercoaster? What, too much or not enough?
Phineas: Actually, instead of improving one of our old inventions, we should make something brand new! Something simple.
Isabella: How do you mean?
Phineas: Well, what is summer all about?
(Song: "Summer (Where Do We Begin?)")
Buford, Isabella, Baljeet: ♪ Summer is running through the sprinklers in your T-shirt, shoes, and-- ♪
Phineas: Yeah, we all know the song. (beat) But I'm not exactly sure how....
(Everyone pauses)
Buford: Well, Hurry up and think of somethin', I'm gettin' tired hanging around here.
Phineas: That's it Buford. You can't get more summer than a tire swing. Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today.
Buford: Uh, hatch mosquitoes?
Phineas: No. Hey! Where's Perry?

(Perry goes down the basement staircase, stopping at the landing next to the Panic Room, opens the bottom stair, stops himself halfway down the slide after forgetting his hat, retrieves it from the stairs, and goes back down into his lair.)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P, We have a report that Doofenshmirtz is at the Shark. We don't know which Shark, but it sounds bad. Ugh! Gives me the heebie-jeebies just thinking about it...
Carl: Sir, it was a typo, Doof isn't at the Shark, he's at the park.
Major Monogram: Well then, that's a lot lower on my heebie-jeebie scale. So Agent P, uh, change of plan. Head over to the park and stop Doof from doing the doings that Doof does ...do (Clears throat)
(Perry salutes then leaves his lair)
Carl: You have a heebie-jeebie scale, sir?
Major Monogram: Yeah. You're on it.

(Switches to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Phineas: An old-fashioned tire-swing but huge and powered by jet-engines that can flatten a small village. Baljeet have you calibrated the ailerons yet?
Baljeet: Oh sure, calibrated the ailerons...
Buford: I'll just stay here and fiddle with stuff so I look busy.
(Buford removes a random part from a control console, and a ray shoots. Buford panics and quickly replaces the part)
Phineas: Hey, Buford.
Buford: What? I didn't take nothing out of nowhere. But, uhm, just as a hypothetical. Uh... What do you think would happen if say you took that goofy doohickey-thing out of the thingamawhatsit?
Phineas: Hmm... Good question. Ferb? (Opens a blueprint.) Well, if we account for the coolness of the jet propulsion circuits this early in the day and the increased internal humidity while that access port is open, removing the part in question would cause the machine to emit a ray that turns a human into a fly.
Buford: Really?
Phineas: You'd be surprised how often removing a single component can make the difference between one thing and a highly complicated totally unrelated other thing. For instance, if you remove this part it will become a Sorbet machine. Why do you ask?
Buford: Oh, no reason.
Candace: A hair bow? Only Stacy can pull this off. (Screams) I'm a fly, how is this possible? Phineas and Ferb, you are so buzzzzzzzzted! Mom!
(Wide shot of downstairs. Candace flies around.)
Candace: Bzzzz! Bzzzzzzz!!! Bzz bzzz bzzzzzz! Bzzzzzz! (close up on fly Candace as she buzzes in her mother's ear) Mom, look! Phineas and Ferb invented somethin' that turns people into flies!
(Wide shot of Linda)
Candace: Bzzzz bzzzzzz!
Linda: Ew, get away, fly! Shoo! Oops! I'm late for my appointment.
Candace: Bzzzzz! Bzzzzz! Mom! It's me! Mom!!! You need to bust the boys and get them to turn me back into me before Jeremy gets back here! (wide shot as Candace realizes she's in the car with Linda, who starts the ignition) What?! (She flies in place but not before smashing into the window) Help meeeeee!

(Scene shifts to Danville Park. Cut to Doofenshmirtz having a picnic. Agent P approaches him)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus, won't you join me for a picnic? (Perry hesitates but then walks up, but not before sinking into his trap. Doofenshmirtz laughs.) Ah! Ah! Ow, my duodenum. Oh, oh, did you see your face?! You were like, "Ooh, maybe I shouldn't," but you're then, "Well, I am hungry" and then BOOM! down you went! Ha-ha! And are you hungry, Perry the Platypus? (Picks up the picnic basket) Well, too bad, it's not for you. It's for them. (Whip pan to reveal pigeons eating seeds. Cut back to Doofenshmirtz, who retrieves an inator from the basket) Behold! My feed-the-pigeons-inator! (Perry just gives Doofenshmirtz a look) Okay, Snobby the Snobapus, I know it doesn't sound like much, but it is technically evil. I am breaking the law. See? (whip pan to a sign saying, "DO NOT FEED THE PIGEONS!") There? There. "Do not feed the pigeons". And I am going to feed the pigeons, therefore I am breaking the law. "Do not feed the pigeons". It's a-it's a metal sign with......big red letters on it and that makes it.......legally binding. (covers his eyes) Okay, here's the truth: I got evil scientist's block, alright? (sighs) Seriously, I got—I got nothing. I—I was going to make a good-idea-inator, but I thought it would be counterproductive because it already had "good" in the title. So then I invented a bad-idea-inator, which...just...gave me this. And see where that got me. Ah, I'm telling ya, I'm dry, Perry the Platypus. Dry! And the summer just keeps going on and on and it feels like it's been goin' on for, like, four years! I'm asking ya man to monotreme, can you help me? (Perry comes out of his hole and leads Doofenshmirtz) See? Even my trap design has become...lackluster.

(Scene shifts to the backyard. Pan down to reveal a giant tire swing)
Phineas: Lady and gentlemen, may we present the good old-fashioned new-fashioned tire swing! (Cut to inside the tire swing to reveal Phineas, Isabella, Ferb, Baljeet and Buford inside the tire) Prepare to engage thrusters! (The tire begins swinging back and forth with rocket launchers) The fully-pressurized cabin is gyroscopically balanced for a perfectly smooth ride.
Baljeet: Hmmm. Now it just feels like we are watching a movie.
Phineas: (pushing a red button) True, but we can also go old school! Hang on, everybody!
(They drop out of the tire revealing themselves riding separate tire swings.)
Isabella: This is great!
Buford: I have never been so sick to my stomach!!

(Cut back to Danville Park)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, I think I've gleaned from your expression that you are now going to lead me through a series of bizarre and seemingly unrelated exercises that will help me get my groove back. Does that about sum it up? Good. Let's do this thing!
(Perry and Doofenshmirtz do some aerobic steps. They then do some trust exercises. Doofenshmirtz is then shown painting a picture. He steps aside to reveal the picture is a badly drawn happy face. Perry shakes his head. Perry and Doofenshmirtz do some more aerobic steps. Doofenshmirtz paints again. He steps aside to reveal a painting in the style of René Magritte's The Son of Man painting, only with Perry in place of the man's body with an apple for a face. Perry shakes his head again. Doofenshmirtz puts his head in his hands. Perry offers him a handkerchief. Doofenshmirtz does some pushups while Perry sits on him while eating a sandwich. Doofenshmirtz is seen painting once more. He steps aside revealing a painting of an inator. Perry gives him a thumbs-up. Doofenshmirtz smiles as the camera zooms in on the painting. Fade in on the painting to reveal the inator built. Zoom out to show Doofenshmirtz holding Perry's hand and walking up to the inator.)

(Scene shifts back to Linda's car.)
Candace: Bzzzz! Bzzzzzz! Bzzz bzz bzzzzz!
Linda: You again? Ha ha! Looks like I took you on a little trip. (opens her window) Get back to your family, little fella.
(Close up on Candace)
Candace: Little fella? What of me looks like a little FELLAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA! (she tumbles out the window)
(Song: "Fly On the Wall")
♪ I don't have to tell you it's a negative situation ♪
♪ Once you're in it (you're in it, you're in it) ♪
♪ I mean, you have to beat your wings ♪
♪ 12,000 times a minute, yeah ♪
♪ You spit acid on your food ♪
♪ 'Cause you can't chew ♪
♪ And when you order from the menu ♪
♪ It's always number 2 ♪
♪ But baby, you can see it all (baby, you can see it all) ♪
♪ Baby, you can see it all (baby, you can see it all) ♪
♪ Baby, you can see it all ♪
♪ When you're a fly on the wall ♪
♪ Baby, you can see it all ♪
♪ When you're a fly on the wall (I'm a fly on the wall) ♪
♪ You got compound eyes, you got hairy thighs ♪
♪ Yeah, life ain't easy for common houseflies ♪
♪ Flypaper, bug zappers, swatters and sprays
♪ And if you make it through that, you live all of seven days ♪
♪ But baby, you can see it all (baby, you can see it all) ♪
♪ Baby, you can see it all (baby, you can see it all) ♪
♪ Baby, you can see it all ♪
♪ When you're a fly on the wall (I'm a fly on the wall) ♪
(The song ends as Candace sees Jeremy on the phone)
Candace: (gasp) This is Jeremy's house! And there's Jeremy! At last! A silver lining! I can find out where we're goin' tonight! A girl's gotta know what a girl's gotta wear.
Jeremy: Yeah, it's a total surprise. I'm taking her to the rodeo.
Candace: The rodeo? I love rodeos! Wait, do I love rodeos or is that because I'm a fly?
Jeremy: Oh, hang on, Coltrane, there's a fly in here. Lemme get it.
(Candace screams and dodges a newspaper swatting her. She screams again as she realizes she's being followed by some Fireside Girls with a jar)
Gretchen: There's one!
Holly: C'mon, Fireside Girls!
Ginger: Let's get it!
(Candace buzzes away from the girls)
Holly: Well, girls, there goes our lizard-feeding patch.
Candace: Zzzzzz...zzzzzz! (she lands on a water spout. Close up as she catches her breath) Could this day get any weirder?
Male Voice: Hello.
(Zoom out to reveal the voice came from a fly with a human head on it.)
Candace: Omigosh, were you turned into a fly, too?
Human Fly: Who me? No. I was always a fly. I just got shot with a human-head-inator and...now I got this thing! It's really uncomfortable. How do you walk around with these?
Candace: Tell me about it. Be glad you don't have a freakishly long neck! (She buzzes out of frame)
(Scene shifts to the backyard as the gang exits the tire swing and talk excitedly about it.)
Isabella: That was the most fun ever!
Phineas: Yeah! And let's restock the snack bar and go again!
Baljeet: Now there is something you do not see every day: a fly with orange hair.
(The orange-haired fly lands on Phineas's palm)
Phineas: Orange hair? (takes out a loupe) Uh oh! (POV shot from the loupe to show a really ticked-off Candace fly) Candace has been turned into a fly! (cut back to Phineas) Wait a minute! Did someone take the doohickey out of the thingamawhatsit? (looks aside) Buford?
Buford: Uhhh...oh no! If I catch the mug what did this...Yeah I'm on it! (he walks to the control panel) Okay, I just pull on... (he activates something and a yellow ray shoots out)
(The ray shoots the Candace fly transforming her into an alligator.)
Buford: (offscreen) Whoop! Wrong one!
(The ray shoots the alligator transforming her into a crying baby)
Buford: (offscreen) Not that one!
(The ray shoots the baby transforming her into a squirrel, then the Giant Floating Baby Head, then a sasquatch, then a giant praying mantis, then her human form, then a piece of Red Leicester cheese, then an orange traffic cone)
Phineas: Wa-wait! Go back two!
(The cone is transformed back into the cheese and then back into Candace)
Candace: (gasps, happily) Oh thank you thank you thank you thank you! (exits then enters again, angrily) I mean, you are so busted! (exits again, then enters again, happily) But thank you!
Buford: Took a few tries there! If I weren't thinking, I woulda just pressed this "fly" button. (He presses the fly button, causing the giant tire swing to launch, taking the pedestal with it) Oh, that kind of fly!
(Cut to the sky, where the giant tire swing launches into space, breaking away the pedestal. Cut to space where a shuttle passes the giant pedestal)
Astronaut: Woah, that is so weird! We're in a space shuttle and the shuttle program ended years ago!
(Cut back to the backyard as the gang looks wide-eyed at the sky)
Isabella: I guess that's it. Fun's over.
Phineas: Au contraire. (He pushes a button and the control panel changes into a sorbet machine. He passes out a couple of sorbets to his friends) Sorbet?

(Cut back to Danville Park. Doofenshmirtz and Perry are standing in front of the inator)
Doofenshmirtz: This is great! The best inator I've ever made! And you know what, Perry the Platypus? There's no self-destruct button on this, so there's no way you can stop me from taking over the entire Tri-State— (The giant tire swing lands on his inator before he finishes his statement) Huh. Well, like my Uncle Boris used to say, "When life's goin' well, a giant tire comes along and smashes your inator." We all thought he was crazy at the time, but now it seems rather prophetic.

(Cut back to the backyard where the gang are enjoying their sorbets under the tree)
Buford: I don't get why this stuff is called "sorbet"? Ain't it just a fancy people word for "ice cream"?
Ferb: While ice cream is made from dairy products and turned vigorously with air, sorbet is made entirely out of fancy people.
Buford: Really?
Ferb: No, not really.
Jeremy: Hey, guys! (He comes in dressed in his fancy suit) Is Candace around?
Candace: (offscreen) Hey there, Jeremy! (cut to the sliding door to reveal Candace in a cowgirl outfit, speaking in a western accent) A lil' birdie told me we were goin' to the rodeo!
(Scene shifts to a rather fancy restaurant)
Maitre d': (French accent) Actually, sir, it is pronounced "ro-day-o".
Jeremy: Oh, yeah. My mistake.
Maitre d': (to Candace) May I take your order..."partner"?
Candace: (sighs) I don't suppose it's Dress Like a Cowboy and Get Your Dinner Free Night.
Maitre d': No, madame. That is Tuesdays.

End Credits
(Song: "Fly On the Wall")
♪ I don't have to tell you it's a negative situation ♪
♪ Once you're in it (you're in it, you're in it) ♪
♪ I mean, you have to beat your wings ♪
♪ 12,000 times a minute, yeah ♪
♪ You spit acid on your food ♪
♪ 'Cause you can't chew ♪
♪ And when you order from the menu ♪
♪ It's always number 2 ♪
♪ But baby, you an see it all when you're a fly on the wall♪



Candace: (In a dream) But, you honor, how could I have robbed that bank if I was already wearing the prison jumpsuit? It just doesn't make any-- (She wakes up to the sound of Buford humming) Somehow I want to finish that dream to find out if I'm guilty or not. (She walks to the window, to see Buford in the backyard, humming and tying his shoes) What?!
Buford: (After he finished tying his shoes) Voilà.
Candace: Buford, what are you doing?
Buford: Just trying out my new...
(Song: "Tuff Gum" (instrumental))
Advertisement: TUFF SHOO LAYSIZZ!
Candace: No, I mean what are you doing in our yard so early?
Buford: There are two things you should know about the Van Stomms. One, we always set our alarms on time, and two, if we don't, we show up early and take our lumps. We've even got a song about it.
Candace: That's okay, I do not need to hear the song.
Buford: Too late.
(Song: "Van Stomm's Rule One")
Buford: ♪ Weeeeeellllllll... ♪
♪Van Stomms wake up better♪
♪Than anyone else on Earth♪
♪It's because we have rules for sleeping♪
♪That we've seemed to know at birth♪
♪Rule One is to set the alarm clock♪
♪To precisely the proper hour!♪
♪And make sure you've got time to eat breakfast,♪
♪Get dressed, brush your tooth, and maybe a shower.♪
♪We're careful with our alarm clocks,♪
♪We're not sloppy like those other chumps♪
♪'Cause Rule Two's if you mess up and set it too early♪
♪You show up and takes your lumps♪
Buford: Does that answer your question?
Candace: Oh yeah, that explains a lot.
Buford: So that's why I got up early. What's your excuse?
Candace: I'm just getting an early start on busting my brothers.
Buford: You know, you should really find a new hobby. You've got no skills.
Candace: Ha! I'd like to see you keep their contraptions from disappearing at the last second.
Buford: Is that a challenge?! Because you should know that the Van Stomms never back down from a challenge.
Buford: ♪ Weeeeeellllllll... ♪
Candace: Stop! Stop! Stop! I challenge you, just as long as you don't sing about it.
Buford: Her loss. The Van Stomm's "Accept a Challenge" song has a killer bridge. It goes to an F sharp minor, in the key of G!
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb's bedroom. Perry is sleeping on Phineas' bed.)
Major Monogram: Calling Agent P. Agent P. Wake-y wake-y Agent P. Over here. No, not on the computer screen. Though that would have made infinitely more sense. To the right. Down a bit. Over a bit more. That's right. (appears on a trading card) Hey-Oh. Carl installed a nano-screen on this trading card a few days ago, disguised as a Flynn-Fletcher family member.
Carl: (Dressed as Candace) Can you guess which one?
Monogram: Take that off already, Carl. You're creeping me out, man.
Carl: Okay...
Monogram: Sorry to wake you up so early Agent P, but evil never rests and by "evil" I mean Doofenshmirtz. It's not even 6 AM yet, and our surveillance cameras have spotted him at the local caffeination station, ordering the largest, most caffeinated beverage they sell. Nothing good can come from this hideous spurt of energy, so get to it Agent-- (Offscreen Phineas is talking to Ferb) Sounds like your boys are on their way back. Get to it Agent P. (puts the real figure on the trading card in)
Phineas: Way to floss, Ferb. Who knew fighting plaque could be so much fun? Come to think of it, (Entering his bedroom along with Ferb) I know what we're going to do today Ferb. Hey where's Perry? That's strange.
Ferb: I know we normally do this later in the day.
Phineas: Yes, yes we do.
Candace: Sweet, with Buford as my busting stooge, now I can concentrate on more important things. (Candace turns on the TV)
TV Show: It's time for "Girls Freaking Out!"
Candace: Ooh, I love this show. It makes me feel so normal.
Linda: (She walks into the room) Okay Candace, I'm off to the beach. Vivian called and said the waves are crankin'. I have my cell with me.
Candace: Oh, that's okay. I'm out-sourcing today. Everything will still be here when you get back.
Linda: Well, I certainly hope so. See you later hon.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (Speaking very rapidly) Gotcha. And you don't even know it yet. That's the beauty part. Watch this prolonged series of unnecessary events. (Doofenshmirtz launches a kangaroo, causing a ball to roll down a flight of stairs, through a tube) W-w-w-watch this. (the ball causes a car to drive into a target, launching an anvil into a catcher's mitt, dropping a cage on Perry) Yeah, yeah, yeah... Yes! Ha! I win! I know it's a little over the top, but I was inspired by this board game I love when I was a kid. Well actually, it was Roger's board game. But I would sneak a peek of it, through the keyhole of his door. You know it looked like I would love it. But, I borderline backstory. (He takes a few short breathes) You see, I have so much evil energy from the soy venti latte extra-caf-and-a-half quadruple sugar, blood pressure bomberino. Love it! So I spent the whole morning building this complex, giant version of the game. Really I surprised you didn't see it flying in. Okay, beholding time! Behold my Luff-Flex-Dill-Pickle-inator! What does it do, you ask? (takes out a screen) Well it will launch all of my enemies into orbit, and keep them floating there so far into the atmosphere, that they won't bother me anymore. Cool, huh? Yeah I know the name's a little weird, but hey, I bought it off the internet, and my rights to it expire tomorrow, so I was kinda forced to use it today. I have so much energy from that one cup of coffee, I just keep rambling-- (Perry hops out of a hole in his cage) Ooh. you know that trap was always the lamest part of the game. I always though-- (Perry attacks Doofenshmirtz)

Phineas: Hey Buford, you're here early.
Buford: The early bully catches the nerd, my friends.
Baljeet: Hello.
Buford: And my point is made for me.
Isabella: Hi Phineas
Irving: I am here also.
Isabella: Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Well our inspiration for today's activity manifested as we performed our morning ablutions.
Isabella: I love it when Phineas uses unnecessarily long words for common things like brushing your teeth and washing up.
Baljeet: Yes, it is gratifyingly erudite.
Isabella: It's not as cute when you do it.
Baljeet: (he sighs) I am cognizant of that fact.
Phineas: Introducing the Dental-Hygenosphere. A thrill packed adventure through the exciting and colossal word of Dental hygiene. Now who's with us?
Isabella and Baljeet: Me!
Irving: We!
Buford: It's a little preach-y for my taste, but count me in too.
Isabella: I'll help with the super structure.
Baljeet: Ooh! I will spray on the enamel coating.
Irving: And I'll sell ballooths. (Isabella and Baljeet stare at Irving) Balloons in the shape of a tooth.
Baljeet: Oh, you mean toothalloons.
Isabella: Ballooths? Where'd you get ballooths from?
Buford: Yeah, that's toothalloons. And I'll lock it all down, and make sure it doesn't move.
Phineas: Alright, safety first, I guess. Knock yourself out.
Candace: (Looking out of her window) Let's see how the rookie's doing on his assignment. (Quirky Worky Song in the background) Hmm, not bad. I kinda like his style.
Irving: Toothalloons! Get your toothalloons here!
(Work on the project continues and Buford proceeds to secure it)
Phineas: Alright everybody, all aboard the tooth-buggies. Ferb even installed dental floss-themed seat belts.
Isabella: Mmm, minty.
Phineas and Isabella: Wa-hoo!
(Buford gets on the ride as it begins to move, but Candace pulls him off)
Candace: Not so fast! I knew too! You're giving up, and just going on the ride for fun.
Buford: Not hardly. I swiped this bad-boy (His rivet gun) from the orthodontist's section, to cut off stuff sticking out of the ride that could snag a passing plane as they go along.
Candace: Listen, this thing ain't snag on a plane is just the tip of the bicuspid. It could shrink down to the size of a real tooth, and get lost in the grass. Or turn to ice, and melt into nothingness. For all you know it could turn into a giant Ducky Momo, and fly away. Are you prepared for all that?
Buford: ♪ Weeeeeellllllll... ♪
Candace: I don't need to hear the "We Prepare for Every Eventuality" song.
Buford: Fine, for the record though, it's the "Be Prepared for Every Eventuality" song. It's in the imperative tense. (walks away angrily)
(On the ride)
Isabella: Wow, the periodontal level was awesome.
Phineas: Hang onto your retainers, everyone as we travel through the pulp chamber, past the cementoenamel junction, and up, up up, to the apex of the crown.
Phineas and Isabella: Yeah! Woo-hoo!
Baljeet: (To Ferb) You know this is tame compared to other roller coasters, but when you compare it to other dental themed rides, it is a rush!

Doofenshmirtz: (Weaving from behind a giant pink kangaroo) Now you see me. Now you don't. Now you see me. Now you don't. Hehe. (Perry punches him, and Doofenshmirtz falls down the stairs, and slides across the ramp of the trap) Hey, where'd ya' go? (Perry bounces up to the catches mitt holding the anvil) I've got you now Perry the Platypus. (Doofenshmirtz bounces up to get him, but smashes into the anvil, which then falls on him.) Ow!

Buford: I've completely protected their invention from airplane snags, stray balloons, meteorites, flocks of wild gazelles, and giant cracks that form in the crust of the Earth.
Candace: What if it turns into water?
Buford: Covered.
Candace: What if it turns into smoke?
Buford: Covered.
Candace: What if it space-harpies descend from the sky and have it for breakfast?
Buford: Aw, come on, really? Totally covered.
Candace: Really? And how di--
Buford: I sprayed it with space-harpy repellent.
Candace: Yeah, okay. Just make sure this is still here when I come back with my mom. (On the phone) Mom! Mom!
Buford: If there's one thing us Van Stomm do, we make sure things are still there when people get back with their moms. ♪ Well.. ♪

Doofenshmirtz: Hold still so I can hit you fair-and-square. (Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz into his -inator, causing it to fire) Really!?
(The beam hits a lawn chair in Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
Buford: Aw man! Random green rays from the sky! I forgot about random green rays from the sky! Oh, no, not on my watch. (Buford throws assorted objects in the path of a green rays) Oh, man, I've run out of conveniently placed objects. Bingo. (Buford runs, and grabs Irving's helium balloon) Coming through!
Irving: My toothalloons!
Buford: Yeah, they weren't selling anyway. Not on my watch. (Another beam hits the helium tank, and it floats away) Ah! The helium tank! Actually it's kinda ironic when you think about it. (Buford sees another beam heading towards him, and in slow motions blocks the beam with his body) Not on my watch! (He begins floating upward) Yes! The human shield tactic never failed. (He notices his shoe laces are caught on the tooth) man, I knew I should have hung onto that laser.
(Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, and Baljeet all exit the ride)
Isabella: Woo-hoo!
Phineas: Woo-hoo.
Baljeet: Let us go again.
(The Tooth gets lift up)
Baljeet: Maybe not.
Buford: AAAAAH! I guess they ain't called--
(Song: "Tuff Gum" (instrumental))
Advertisement: TUFF SHOO LAYSIZZ!
Buford: ...for nothin'.

Doofenshmirtz: Prepare to be blitzed by my inexplicable, new found martial arts mastery! (Doofenshmirtz shows off his new found talent, but accidentally kicks off his shoe) I hate to ask Perry the Platypus, but have you seen my other-- (Perry is seen rubbing his head, with Doofenshmirtz's shoe lying beside him) Oh, there it is. That's what I was planning to do. Perry the Platypus, looks like this is the end for you. (Doofenshmirtz lines up his -inator to hit Perry. However Perry throws Doofenshmirtz's shoe at him, causing the -inator to fire at Doofenshmirtz's building, and Doofenshmirtz to flip over the edge of the building, having him hang their by only his knees) Just not nice! (The top of Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated lifts into the sky)

Buford: (After untying himself from the giant tooth) Well, I hope that lands in the backyard of a giant who needs a fake tooth.
(Perry smashes the inner workings of the -inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, hey did you say, (He mimics a few electrical noises)
Buford: You know I kind of like to sit back and relax after all that manual labour. (The floating effect wears off of him and the other objects hit by the -inator) Uh-oh. (He plunges downward) Ahhhhhh! I've got a song about how Van Stomms fall from the sky too, but, it doesn't end well.
Isabella: That was so much fun.
Phineas: Too bad Buford missed it all. I wonder where he got to.
(Buford's laces catch on the tree, and he hangs in front of the gang)
Buford: Hello.
Phineas: Hey, Buford. Are those--
(Song: "Tuff Gum" (instrumental))
Advertisement: TUFF SHOO LAYSIZZ!
Buford: Yes, yes they are.
(Scene cuts to the gate)
Candace: Right over here Mom. Ta-da!
(Long pause, Candace frowns. Her perspective)
Phineas: Hi Mom! Hi Candace!
Linda: What are you guys up to? Buford, are you okay?
Buford: Just putting my new laysizz through their paces.
Linda: Okay then. Then I'm going inside. Who wants pie?
Isabella: I do.
Baljeet: Ah, yes.
Phineas: Yeah, me too.
Baljeet: I always want pie.
Candace: (stomps up to Buford) Buford, explain yourself!
Buford: ♪ Weeeeeellllllll... ♪
Candace: (running away) I'm not hearing it!
Buford: ♪ ...if we Van Stomms don't succeed on the very first try... ♪ ...Then we just give up.
(The top of DEI lands in the middle of a desert)
Doofenshmirtz: Just in case anyone's wondering what happened to old Doofenshmirtz, I'm okay. (The giant tooth lands on top of him) Well, obviously not now.

End credits
Buford:♪ Weeeeeellllllll... ♪
♪Van Stomms wake up better♪
♪Than anyone else on Earth♪
♪It's because we have rules for sleeping♪
♪That we've seemed to know at birth♪
♪Rule One is to set the alarm clock♪
♪To precisely the proper hour!♪
♪And make sure you've got time to eat breakfast,♪
♪Get dressed, brush your tooth, and maybe a shower.♪
♪We're careful with our alarm clocks,♪
♪We're not sloppy like those other chumps♪
♪'Cause Rule Two's if you mess up and set it too early♪
♪You show up and takes your lumps♪



(The words "My Sweet Ride" appear in a sleek font in the sky; the camera pans down to the Flynn-Fletcher house)
♪ My sweet ride! ♪
♪ Forget all your worries ♪
♪ Forget all your cares ♪
♪ (My sweet ride!) ♪
♪ The sun's in my -- ♪
(Music abruptly stops as Candace slams the door open, she and Jeremy enter)
Candace: (singsong) Hey, Mom!
Jeremy: Hey, Mrs. Flynn.
Candace: Mom, why can't I get a car?
(Song: My Cruisin' Sweet Ride (instrumental))
Linda: (skates by) Candace, you only have your learner's permit.
Candace: Yeah, but eventually, I'm gonna have my license. I think we should be ready.
Linda: (skates by) Riiiight. In the meantime, have a cookie!
Candace: That's hardly the same thing. Why are you dressed like that?
Linda: Don't you remember? The Doo Wop Hop is tonight. All the neighborhood moms have volunteered to be carhops.
Jeremy: Wow, Mrs. Flynn, I really like the wig helmet. (eats a cookie)
Linda: Why, thank you, Jeremy. Safety first, you know. (leaves)
Jeremy: (to Candace) I don't know about you, but I'm gonna have another cookie. (eats another cookie)
Phineas: (off-screen) Aloha, cats!
(Widen to reveal Phineas and Ferb dressed up)
Jeremy: Oh, hey, guys. How are you doin'?
Phineas: Mellow like a cello and solid to boot, daddy-o. We're going to the Doo Wop Hop tonight, so we're dressed like they did in the fifties. You know, when everyone dressed like a sitcom from the seventies? Right, Ferb?
(Ferb snaps his fingers in a pattern)
Lawrence: (enters from garage) Boys, have you seen my welder?
Phineas: Ferb and I were using it to put the finishing touches on his shades. Right, Ferb?
(Ferb points)
Lawrence: Oh, yes, those are very hip.
Phineas: What have you been working on all night out there, Dad?
Lawrence: It's a surprise for Candace uh -- oops! Uh...
Candace: Wait, this conversation suddenly interests me. What are you making me?
Linda: Oh, Lawrence, sounds like you'd better tell her!
Lawrence: Well, I wanted it to be a surprise, but I bought you a car!
Jeremy: No way.
Candace: Really?! A car?!!
Lawrence: (leads them into the garage) Oh, yes. It's the same car I had when I was a lad. I figured it would be ready when you were old enough.
Candace: Uh, what do you mean, "ready"?
(Lawrence unveils the "car", it is unfinished)
Lawrence: Well, uh, it's not fully restored, yet.
Candace: Ya think?
Jeremy: Hey, Mr. Fletcher, is that a Nedlington Nymph?
Lawrence: Why yes, yes it is! Jeremy, you have your license, don't you? You can take Candace for a ride in it when it's finished.
Jeremy: Awesome.
Phineas: Ferb and I think it's cool, too. Ferb, tell them what you told me.
(Ferb motions in a pattern)
Phineas: Right?
Candace: I'm living in Crazy Town, and Phineas and Ferb are town council.
Phineas: Heeeeeyy. Where's Perry?

(Scene shifts to Perry's lair and Perry looks at the monitor)
Major Monogram: What's shakin', bacon? (camera reveals Major Monogram dressed up '50s-style) Like the threads? Carl and I are going to cruise over to the Doo Wop Hop tonight. We're going incognito. Maybe do a little reconnaissance while I take in the car show.
Carl: And he really just wants to spy on Monty to find out what of kind girl he's dating.
Major Monogram: Wrong! Wrong, Carl! We happen to know that Doofenshmirtz has entered a car in the competition. He must be up to something. And if I should happen to see whom my son is dating, well, where's the harm in that? Hmm? Meanwhile, we need you to find out what the heck Doof is building, validate its evilness, and destroy it. (Agent P salutes) Good luck, Agent P, and see ya later, crocodile!
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah dooo... ♪
(Scene shifts to D. E. I.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Scene shifts to inside Doofenshmirtz's lab. He is clearly working on building something. He laughs evilly.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, sometimes evil just cracks me up! (He hears Vanessa humming) Say where's that humming coming from?
(Cut to reveal Vanessa scatting in front of a makeup mirror also dressed in '50s clothing and putting on lipstick)
Vanessa: ♪ Do-wah, do-wop, de-do-de-do-do ♪
♪ Do-wah... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Vanessa, is that you? Are you okay?
Vanessa: What do you mean, Dad?
(The song from the start of the episode plays instrumentally)
Doofenshmirtz: Something's not right. The corners of your mouth are pointing up. (feeling her forehead) Maybe you're running a fever.
Vanessa: Relax, will you? I'm just looking forward to the '50s Doo Wop Hop tonight.
Doofenshmirtz: So who are you going with?
Vanessa: Oh, you know, just a friend.
(Music abruptly stops; a screen lowers down with the sign "INTRUDER ALERT" on it. The screen flashes Perry's image on it.)
Vanessa: Speaking of friends, I think you have a little visitor.
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, he can wait. So what friend? Is it that girl with the dark hair who has all those dachshunds?
Vanessa: (approaching the door) No. It's a...different...
Doofenshmirtz: No wait! No no no! Don't open the door! You'll let in Perry the Platypus!
Vanessa: You know he'll just blow the door down if you don't open it. (opens door revealing Perry holding a bazooka) Come in, Perry. Toodles! (she leaves)
Doofenshmirtz: I'm worried about her, Perry the Platypus. Hey! You were going to to blow down my door! (Perry sets the bazooka down, but accidentally fires it leaving a big hole in a Warholian picture of Doofenshmirtz.) Oh, great! See, this is why I can't have anything nice! Anyway, c'mon, let me show you what I've been workin' on. Y'see, it all started when I was just a small boy back in Gimmelshtump.
(Flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) Friday was always Cruise Night and everybody would come out and see the hipsters in their cool cars made from cannibalized parts left over from Drusselstein's many foreign occupations. But for me...
Young Doofenshmirtz: Oooooh!
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) ...the coolest car of all was the Boomshlaka 320-I, run by my Uncle Simpkin!
Young Doofenshmirtz: Yeah! You go! You show them how you're more masculine than everyone else!
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover, talking over his younger self) To me, it was the coolest car ever!
Young Doofenshmirtz: Booyah!
Uncle Simpkin: Hey! (taking off his shirt and throwing it into the crowd)
(A female fan catches it and is dogpiled on by other fans)
Female Fan: I saw it first!
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) Unfortunately, the car had one major design flaw: The back part was a surplus dynamite plunger and the gas tank sat directly under the driver's seat.
(A car behind the Boomshlaka bumps into it causing it to explode into pieces sending Uncle Simpkin into orbit.)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) And I never saw him again.
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: But I have been able to restore his car. (Cut to a dust cover being lifted revealing the car) The 1957 Drusselstein Boomshlaka 320-I! Mmmwah! Ain't she a honey? I'm sure to win first prize with this. And here's the good part! (He pushes a button on a remote, causing jumper cables to come out of the grill trapping Perry. Doofenshmirtz laughs) Trapper cables! I needed to restrain you for this next part because it does get a little bit evil. Just to ensure there's no real competition, I built a little gadget called the Rustinator. At the push of a button, it will reduce every other car into red dust! Or rust. Wait, red dust, rust. I wonder if that's where that word came from. (exits) I'm gonna go look up its entomology. (returns) Yeah, I looked it up. It turns out "entomology" is the study of insects. Go figure. Anyway, uh, in you go! (The cables put Perry inside the vehicle.) I'll just get in the normal way. (Cut to the driver's seat) How's it goin' down there? Cozy in your steel cables? Careful with the Rustinator, Norm! (Cut to reveal Norm buckled up holding the Rustinator) Wouldn't want it to go off inadvertently.
Norm: No problemo!
(The car starts. Cut to a shot of the garage opening. Pan right to a door next to it. The Boomshlaka 320-I bursts from out of that door instead. Doofenshmirtz can be heard laughing.)
(Scene shifts to the Flynn-Fletcher garage. Phineas and Ferb are looking at a model of the Nedlington Nymph. Lawrence is under the car. We hear snoring.)
Phineas: Boy, Ferb, Dad was right. That muffler sure is making some weird noises.
(Song: Watchin' and Waitin' (instrumental))
(Phineas and Ferb look under the car. We see Lawrence is actually sleeping on the job with the manual on his face and still holding a couple of wrenches in both hands.)
Phineas: Uh, we'd best leave him be. Ferb, show me the model you've been workin' on. Were you able to add any extras?
(Ferb pushes a button to reveal rocket launchers on the model. It flies out of the garage and explodes. The explosion shakes Lawrence causing him to roll away on his wheeled platform, still sleeping.)
Phineas: Wow, Candace is gonna love that...I mean except for the explosion part. We should probably fix that.
(Scene shifts to the front of the house. A car pulls up with Vivian, Mrs. Johnson and Mrs. Tjinder. Candace is waiting outside dressed in her '50s outfit.)
Vivian: ¡Hola, Candace! Ooh, don't you look lovely!
Candace: Thank you, Mrs. Garcia-Shapiro!
Mrs. Johnson: Jeremy'll be along in a minute, honey!
Vivian: Is your mother ready?
Candace: She'll be right out.
(Song: History of Rock (instrumental))
(Linda comes out skating her way down)
Linda: All set! See ya there, Candace! Okay, ladies, here I come! (She skates away) There I go! Ha ha! Sorry! Can't stop. FOLLOW MEEEEEEEEEEEEEE....
Mrs. Johnson: Step on it, Vivian, she's getting away!
(They drive off)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace.
(Cut to reveal Jeremy in his '50s outfit riding his bicycle.)
Candace: Jeremy?
Jeremy: My car broke down.
Candace: Well, I guess we're riding our bikes to the car show. (They walk to the garage) We can wow them with our irony.
(She presses the garage door opener. The door opens revealing the fully restored Nedlington Nymph. Phineas stands on the car playing a fanfare on a bugle.)
Candace: (angrily) You guys are so... (excitedly) AWESOME!! Wow! I never thought it would turn out so beautiful! Right?
Jeremy: How's the engine sound?
Phineas: (tossing Jeremy the keys) You tell me! Dad did say you could drive it when it was finished.
Candace: Hey, where is Dad anyway?
Ferb: Hmm. Well, last we saw him, he was working on the muffler.
(Cut to the road to reveal Lawrence rolling away. The Boomshlaka 320-I, with Doofenshmirtz sticking out of the roof, nearly misses him)
Doofenshmirtz: Outta the way, luge boy!
(Cut back to outside the garage)
Phineas: He may be on his way to the hop.
Jeremy: Okay, well, maybe we should get goin'. Hop in, everyone! We're goin' cruisin'!
(Song: My Cruisin' Sweet Ride)
Ferb: ♪ You're gonna love ♪
Phineas: ♪ You're gonna love just what this car can do ♪
Ferb: ♪ We tricked it out ♪
Phineas: ♪ We worked really hard just to trick it out for you ♪
♪ A simple push of a button changes the pattern and the hue ♪
♪ On your sweet ride ♪
Candace: ♪ My sweet ride ♪
Ooh, look! The visor's a vanity!
Jeremy: ♪ And the glove box has real hands! ♪
Vivian, Mrs. Tjinder, Mrs. Johnson: ♪ Shoo-bop, shoo-bop ♪
Phineas: ♪ It steers itself, there's a trophy shelf ♪
♪ And it opens up your cans ♪
♪ And if you need a rocket engine, you'll be the envy of the whole gang ♪
Vivian, Mrs. Tjinder, Mrs. Johnson: ♪ Shoo-bop, shoo-bop ♪
Doofenshmirtz: My car has a turret that goes...
Ferb: ♪ Boom ba-ba-boom ba-bang-a-bang-bang ♪
♪ Ba-ba-boom ba-ba-boom ba-bang-a-bang-bang ♪
Linda: Whoo-hoo-hoo!
Ferb: ♪ We're gonna cruise ♪
Vivian: ♪ Cruising with our friends ♪
Mrs. Tjinder, Mrs. Johnson: ♪ (Ooh, oo-ooh) ♪
Linda: Follow me, we're almost there!
Ferb: ♪ Deploy the chutes! ♪
Phineas: Let's deploy the chutes, Ferb!
♪ There's romance in the air! ♪
Jeremy: ♪ There's nothing I'd rather do ♪
♪ Than take a moonlight drive with you ♪
♪ In your sweet ride ♪
Candace: ♪ My sweet ride! ♪
All: Yeah!
(Scene shifts to the Doo Wop Hop. The Boomshlaka 320-I rolls in.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha! This is gonna be a piece of cake! (The tank rolls onto the stage.) I rule! (Confetti comes out. Everyone laughs.) I don't get it, what's the joke? Why is everyone laughing?
(Cut to Monogram and Carl. Monogram is looking through binoculars.)
Major Monogram: I can't find Monty. Get up on my shoulders, Carl! See if you can see 'em!
Carl: You're not gonna drop me again, are you?
Major Monogram: Just do it, Carl! And watch the hair. Take these. (Carl gets on Monogram's shoulders and takes the binoculars.) Now what do ya see?
Carl: There he is! (POV shot from the binoculars to show Monty next to Vanessa) And he's with—Oh no! (Monty looks in terror and shushes Carl)
Major Monogram: What-wh-Carl! What do you see?
Carl: Someone who owes me big time!
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: They dare to laugh at the Drusselstein Boomshlaka 320-I? Well, we'll just see who has the last laugh! Norm, fire up the Rustinator!
Norm: (saluting) Firing away, sir! Now, how do I set the coordinates? Hmmmm... (Perry pushes a button with the Boomshlaka 320-I on it) Thank you, Perry the Platypus! Very sporting of you! (The Rustinator activates rusting up the vehicle)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh-oh! Well, thank goodness for the plastic gas tank. (to Vanessa) Hey, Vanessa?! Is that you?!
(Cut to Vanessa with Monty, who is trying to hide his face)
Vanessa: Hi, Dad!
Doofenshmirtz: Wait a minute! Who's that boy you're with? He looks strikingly familiar. (Perry pushes a button on the gas tank) Say, isn't that— (The tank explodes sending Doofenshmirtz into orbit) AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHH!!! (a man passes by him) Uncle Simpkin? He's looking well.

(Cut to a hillside, which Lawrence rolls up and then rolls down.)
(Cut back to the Doo Wop Hop. The Nedlington Nymph rolls on stage.)
Stanky Dog: Up next is a late entry. Wow! I don't believe it! Look at this, folks! (a mechanical hand emerges from the car. Candace takes it and walks out) Is that a Nedlington Nymph?
Candace: Yes. Yes, it is.
(Cut back to Lawrence still rolling downhill. He passes by a farm and finally arrives at the Doo Wop Hop.)
Stanky Dog: And who did this amazing restoration?
Candace: Well, my dad's been working on it for a while and...oh, here he is!
(Lawrence emerges from under the car and finally wakes up. He looks around him and gives an embarrassed yell.)
Stanky Dog: Looka that, folks! Workin' on it up to the last second!
Lawrence: I was?
(A model gives Stanky Dog a big trophy)
Stanky Dog: Well, I think I speak for all the judges when I say the Nedlington Nymph wins Best in Show!
(applause)
Lawrence: What an honor! Here, Candace! It is your car after all!
Linda: (skating up to her husband) A one of a kind car for a one of a kind girl!
Candace: Aw, you guys!
(Linda skates away backwards)
Lawrence: Oh, dear, you're rolling away!
Candace: (giving the trophy to her brothers) This really goes to you, you know.
Phineas: Cool! You were right, Ferb, it really did need a trophy shelf! (Perry emerges from inside the cup chattering) Oh, there you are, Perry!
(Ferb snaps and points)

End Credits
(Song: My Cruisin' Sweet Ride) 
Doofenshmirtz: My car has a turret that goes...
Ferb: ♪ Boom ba-ba-boom ba-bang-a-bang-bang ♪
♪ Ba-ba-boom ba-ba-boom ba-bang-a-bang-bang ♪
Linda: Whoo-hoo-hoo!
Ferb: ♪ We're gonna cruise ♪
Vivian: ♪ Cruising with our friends ♪
Mrs. Tjinder, Mrs. Johnson: ♪ (Ooh, oo-ooh) ♪
Linda: Follow me, we're almost there!
Ferb: ♪ Deploy the chutes! ♪
Phineas: Let's deploy the chutes, Ferb!
♪ There's romance in the air! ♪
Jeremy: ♪ There's nothing I'd rather do ♪
♪ Than take a moonlight drive with you ♪
♪ In your sweet ride ♪
Candace: ♪ My sweet ride! ♪



(Scene opens up at D.E.I with Doofenshmirtz yelling in his dream.)
Doofenshmirtz: No, No, No! I've been good! Don't put me in your gundersack! Not the gundersack! Ahhhhhhhhh! The Kinderlumper!
(Doofenshmirtz sits up in bed, breathing heavily, then gasps.)
Doofenshmirtz: That's it! Der Kinderlumper!
(Doofenshmirtz chuckles evilly as he comes to a evil realization.)

(Scene shifts to the the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Candace: So, what do you think?
Stacy: I think you look like you just fell off a turnip truck, and then got run over by a rutabaga truck.
Candace: Yeah yeah, real funny. This is the official rutabaga regalia for the 100th Running of the Chinchillas from Danville to Badger Town. By wearing this it will entice the chinchillas to follow me the Princess!
Stacy: So yeah, I get it. It's a huge honor and everything. But come on Candace, why do you really want to be Rutabaga Princess?
Candace: I get to start the Running of the Chinchillas!
Stacy: Yeah...
Candace: Mom, Dad, and everyone in Danville will be waiting in Badger Town to see me cross the finish line!
Stacy: Yeah...
Candace: I get to be on TV!
Stacy: That's the reason!
Candace: Stacy, this is my first step on my way to stardom and as my best friend, you'll be famous by association.
Stacy: That's my favorite kind of famous!
Phineas: (Off-screen.) Candace!
Candace: What is it, Phineas?
Phineas: Look at the cool vehicles we made for you for the Running of the Chinchillas! Baljeet has grown a new super street of bio engineer rutabaga!
Baljeet: I simply spliced the genetic code of a rutabaga and a giant redwood.
Buford: Aaaaannnnd?
Baljeet: And fennel.
Buford: I want it to smell like licorice!
Candace: You're not getting me into one of those things! I'm not showin' up for my TV debut lookin' like a complete weirdo! (to Stacy) What? I said, "Complete". (to the gang) And now, I must leave. My public awaits.
Stacy: Yeah, and I must go be famous by association.
Phineas: And to think, we knew Stacy before she was famous by association.
(Cut to inside the house. Perry walks on all fours before taking out his fedora and taking out a black hole and jumping into it.)
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo— ♪
(Linda walks in vacuuming)
Linda: Dah! I'm supposed to be in Badgertown! (she runs off leaving the still-on vacuum behind her. We hear an inexplicable cat scream in the background.)
(Cut to Agent P's lair. Monogram is on screen with a Chinchilla racing forum in one and a pen in the other. Perry approaches the screen.)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P. I was just doing a little handicapping for this year's Running of the Chinchillas. Think I'm going to box Dryer's Dust with Squeaky Toy.
Carl: (also holding a racing forum and a pen) And I'm taking Gerbil Bait to win.
Major Monogram: You're daft, Carl! (to Perry) Anyway, rumor has it that Doofenshmirtz plans to attend the ceremony. Odds are he's up to something evil. Better look into it, Agent P. (Perry zips away) Hmmm...Gerbil Bait. Heh, talk about your long shots. (He looks to his right) Dangit, Carl!

(Cut to an open field where a news reporter and a cameraman are on the scene)
Reporter: Good morning, everyone. I'm Mike van Hatofapilgrim here in Danville for the 100th Annual Running of the Chinchillas, (walking up to Candace and Stacy) and with us today is this year's Rutabaga Princess. And what's your name, young lady?
Candace: I'm Candace Flynn.
Stacy: (pushing Candace aside) And I'm famous by association!
Mike: That's great. (to the camera) Well, there ya have it. A good day for rutabagas, chinchillas, and self-promoting sycophantism.
(Cut to a stage. Candace is standing behind a microphone and in front of a dozen or so chinchillas.)
Candace: Ahem. Citizens of Danville, it is now time for your princess....me....to start the Running of the Chinchillas! I now summon my tuber troubadour!
(Irving approaches Candace wearing a shirt that says "I Heart Rutabagas" carrying a bugle.)
Irving: I will now play the traditional chinchilla fanfare. (He takes a deep breath and plays a very out of tune fanfare. He inhales again, while Candace swipes the horn away revealing he's simply musically exhaling.) What? But—Huh? (Candace throws the horn away.) I see. Not a music lover. (He holds up a purple pillow with a rutabaga on it) My Princess?
Candace: I will now take a bite of the ceremonial rutabaga. (She sinks her teeth into the rutabaga, but then promptly spits it into her other hand.)
Irving: And now I most humbly take my leave. (He leaves) Princess.
Candace: You do that, Sputnik. Chinchillas, let the running begin!
(And they're off!)
Mike: Well, there they go! And now, the Running of the Chinchillas is underway! And now, back to you in the studio.
Cameraman: There's no one in the studio. It's Sunday.
Mike: Really? How'm I supposed to do a live broadcast when no one is in the studio?
Cameraman: We're not live. We're taping this.
Mike: (sighs) Fine.
(Cut to Candace who is running among the chinchillas. Stacy catches up to her.)
Stacy: Candace, here, let me get your train. (Holds onto Candace's cape, then hears a loud squeak) Oh, omigosh, sorry!
Candace: I don't know, Stacy. This is harder than I thought. (another loud squeak) Oh, sorry!
Stacy: Maybe if we ran in front of them, it'd be a little easier.
Candace: Okay, now onward to Badgertown!
Stacy: Oh, omigosh, sorry!

(Cut to D. E. I. Close up on Perry who is scaling up the building with suction cups. He takes off his hat and produces from it another black hole. Cut to inside Doofenshmirtz's lab, who is in his long johns tinkering with his latest inator.)
Doofenshmirtz: That should do it. (Perry emerges from the black hole while Doof's butt flap goes down.) Excellent. (turns around) Perry the Platypus? (looks at his butt flap) Oh. (he buttons it) Sorry you had to see that. It's just that...this one button. Anyway, you are just in time to witness as I activate the Kinderlumperinator and transform myself into a real live Kinderlumper! (Perry looks at Doofenshmirtz confused) What? Don't tell me you've never heard of the Kinderlumper. (Perry simply shrugs) Y'know...uh...gigantic troll with sharp teeth and nose like a broom handle, he grabs children, puts 'em in a gundersack if they...You never heard of this? My mother used to sing me this lovely song about it right before I went to bed. And it goes a little something like this. (He claps his hands twice. The lights go out. He claps twice again to reveal he is now dressed like Cab Calloway in front of a jazz band and does some of Cabby's signature walks.)
(Song: Der Kinderlumper)
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ The Kinderlumper's probably gonna get ya ♪
♪ 'Cause you've only ever been an awful kid ♪
♪ Pretty soon he's gonna come and catch ya ♪
♪ Then everyone will know just what you did ♪
♪ Because... ♪
♪ If you make some bubbles in the bathtub ♪
♪ If you've got saliva in your mouth ♪
♪ If you ever feel the need to blink your eyeballs ♪
♪ If he finds you breathing in and out ♪
♪ The Kinderlumper's gonna get ya ♪
♪ The Kinderlumper's gonna get ya ♪
♪ If you ever drink a glass of water ♪
♪ If you turn your head just slightly to the right ♪
♪ If you ever feel the need to use the bathroom ♪
♪ Then the Kinderlumper's gonna strike tonight! ♪
♪ The Kinderlumper's gonna get ya ♪
♪ The Kinderlumper's gonna get ya! ♪
♪ The Kinderlumper's gonna get ya ♪
♪ The Kinderlumper's gonna get ya! ♪
♪ He's gonna get you good! ♪
♪ The Kinderlumper's gonna get ya! ♪
(Doofenshmirtz claps twice turning off the lights. He claps twice again turning them back on to reveal himself and Perry back where they were at the end of their conversation)
Doofenshmirtz: So anyway, I got this actual-sized Kinderlumper costume (climbing inside the suit) and I'm gonna shoot myself with the Kinderlumperinator to make me gigantic and trollish so, ya know, it will fit. Then I will go to scare my brother, Roger, so badly that he is certain to relinquish control of the Tri-State Area to me! Well, to the Kinderlumper, actually, but when the ray wears off, I'll be me again and I'll already be in control. Stand back, Perry the Platypus. Prepare to do some beholding! (He claps twice again, activating the Kinderlumperinator. Perry jumps up to him) Oh! Knock it off, you crazy platy— (The inator zaps both of them, transforming Doofenshmirtz into an exact likeness of the Kinderlumper, while Perry transforms into a rather giant hairy bearded platypus-type monster) It worked! Hee hee hee hee hee hee! (He claps twice accidentally activating the inator again, which shoots through the black hole and out the building.)

(Cut back to Candace and Stacy running in front of the chinchillas)
Candace: Y'know, Stacy? This is fun. I could get used to this princess thing. (The blue ray zaps all of the chinchillas making them into giant beasts. Stacy screams first followed by Candace. They flee past a news van. The chinchilla beasts follow them, tipping the van over. Mike and the cameraman open the doors and emerge from the van.)
Mike: Did you see that? Call in Chopper 4! This is the biggest story of my career! (He jumps out of the van) Let's get some!
Cameraman: Oh, why did I ever opt for work release?

(Cut back to D.E.I. where the giant Perry monster is stomping on the inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Seriously, Perry the Platypus, is it really necessary to destroy everything? (Perry jumps off the destroyed inator and chatters. Doofenshmirtz backs away leading Perry onto a giant black "X" in the middle of the room) N-nn-n-n-now, now, that's a good trollish gigantic platypus. (Doofenshmirtz claps twice activating a giant cage that drops on Perry) Ha! Let that be a lesson to you: Never stand on a big cartoony "X"! And now, I've a little appointment to keep with the mayor. (Doof exits laughing. Perry chatters)

(Cut back to the Flynn-Fletcher house. The gang are standing in front of the rutabaga vehicles)
Phineas: Everyone have your signs and foam fingers ready to cheer Candace on?
Baljeet: (showing his foam finger) Ready!
Buford: (showing he ate his finger) Ready!
Baljeet: Buford, you bit your finger off!
Buford: (threateningly) Yeah! What about it?!
Baljeet: Nothing.
Candace: (offscreen) Phineas Phineas Phineas...and Ferb! (she and Stacy run into the frame) You have to help us! We're being chased by monster-sized chinchillas!
Phineas: Monster-sized chinchillas? That's awesome!
Candace: Here they come!
(The chinchilla beasts stampede down the street. Cut to a news chopper where Mike and the cameraman are riding)
Mike: This is amazing! I've never been in a helicopter before!
(The cameraman sighs.)
(Cut to Candace, Stacy and the gang all in separate rutabaga vehicles. Isabella, meanwhile, is sprinting on rutabaga spring-shoes.)
Stacy: They're gaining on us!
(The beasts all follow the vehicles)
Stacy: And can't this thing go any faster!
Candace: I got the fennel pedal all the way to the rutabaga metal! And yes, I know it's a weird sentence.
(Buford and Baljeet yell as the beasts trample past them. Cut to Isabella on her shoes)
Isabella: Phineas! (She screams as she gets taken in by the beasts)
Phineas: Isabella!!!! Noooooooooo!!!!! (Too late as Phineas and Ferb become the last victims)
Stacy: Oh no! Phineas and Ferb!!
Mike: (from the chopper) Oh, those poor innocent kids. (covering his eyes) I can't watch. It's just-It's just—I'm gonna step outside where I can—WOOOOOOAHH! Did you see that?! I almost stepped out of the helicopter! Did you just see that?!
(Cut back to Candace and Stacy screaming as their vehicle crashes into a hydrant. Stacy's foot gets caught under the vehicle.)
Stacy: Save yourself, princess! RUN!!! RUN!!!! RUUUUUUUNNNNN!!!!
(Overhead shot of Danville as Candace runs from the beasts, the news chopper following them)
(Cut to the finish line in Badgertown where there is a big stage placed with lots of people gathered around it. Roger and Melanie are standing on the stage)
Melanie: The chinchillas should be here any minute, Mr. Mayor.
Roger: Well, I hope they don't ask me to eat any rutabagas like last year.
Melanie: I think we can avoid (gasps dramatically) WHAT IS THAT?!?!
(Cut to reveal Doofenshmirtz, still in Kinderlumper form, trodding down the road.)
Roger: I think I know this guy. There's nothing to be afraid of! It's only the Kinderlumper come to join our celebration! Ha-ha! Now it's a party!
Doofenshmirtz: I, uh, I believe the more appropriate response would be to flee in terror.
Roger: But, Kinderlumper, why would I ever run away from you?
Doofenshmirtz: Don't you remember the Kinderlumper song?
Roger: Remember? Of course I remember! Bubbe used to sing me the song every night.
♪ The Kinderlumper's always going to love you ♪
♪ And bring you lots of presents while you sleep. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: N-n-no, wait! Those are not the words!!!
Roger: Well, that's how she sang it to me. And I still have some of the gifts you brought me. (He takes out a box of almond brittle.) Look! Almond brittle!
Doofenshmirtz: NO!!! But—But you don't even like almond brittle!
Roger: I know. (puts the box back in his jacket) That's why I never ate it.
Doofenshmirtz: (sobbing) Nooo-ho-ho....
Roger: Funny. I never thought of the Kinderlumper as such a crybaby.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh no! The effects are wearing off! (Doofenshmirtz reverts back to his original self)<
(Cut to the Perry monster in the trap as he also returns to normal)

(Cut back to Candace still being chased by the chinchilla beasts screaming.)
Candace: Run for your lives!
(The crowd screams as they see the beasts, who suddenly shrink back down to their small size.)
(Cut to the finish line as Linda and Lawrence are waiting.)
Candace: They're coming! Chinchillas! It's too late for me! (dropping in front of her parents) Save yourselves!
(Cut to Candace on the ground as the chinchillas run on top of her. Candace laughs as they tickle her.)
Lawrence: Were you this dramatic when you were Rutabaga Princess?
Linda: Oh, yeah.
Candace: Stop it! (giggling) Seriously!
(Cut to Stacy, Isabella, Baljeet, Buford, Phineas and Ferb, all carrying chinchillas and running to the finish)
Phineas: Candace, that was so exciting! You're the best Rutabaga Princess yet!
Candace: Phineas! I thought you were stampeded!
Phineas: We were! It didn't hurt. They were big but they were still fluffy.
Ferb: It's like being run over by cotton candy. But less sticky.
Mike: That was amazing! I got it all on camera!
Candace: Wait, really? Did you get Phineas and Ferb and the rutabaga vehicles?
Mike: Eeyup. The whole thing!
Candace: Where's the camera?
Mike: (pointing offscreeen) Oh, it's right over there.
(Cut to the chopper, which is now infested with all the chinchillas. They somehow fly off with the camera still inside.)
Mike: NO!!! The biggest story of my career (sobbing) and it just flew away!
Candace: Welcome to my world, Mike. Welcome to my world.
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry. (picks him up) Get over here, you hairy little beast! (Perry chatters)

End credits
(Open on Drusselstein, we hear a young Doofenshmirtz having some fun. Cut to the interior of Doofenshmirtz's bedroom where he is bouncing up and down on the bed)
Mrs. Doofenshmirtz: (shadowed) Heinz Doofenshmirtz, if you don't go to sleep this instant, der Kinderlumper will come to get you and put you in his gundersack!
Young Doofenshmritz: Well, that's a bit harsh, doncha think?
(The door closes as Young Doofenshmirtz gets into bed. While he's sleeping, the Kinderlumper goes to the window, opens it, and sticks his head inside. He sniffs young Doofenshmirtz and smiles leeringly.)



Part I
(In Downtown, Seattle, two crooks pull a large metal contraption into truck and the third drives all of them off)
Chorus: ♪ Perry! ♪
(He puts on a helmet on and rides after them on a motorcycle. The crooks try to evade Perry, through use of an attached claw, and even removing the back door, but are unsuccessful, and the chase leads them to the Canadian Border, and the truck drives straight through the stop bar)
Border Patroller: Hey, you can't do that!
(Perry drives through)
Border Patroller: Hey, that same thing, but in French!
(Perry continues to avoid the obstacles put in his way, and grappling hooks the claw under the truck tilting it, and he begins to try to stop it)
Woman on Motorcycle: You're out of your jurisdiction buddy. (She flashes a badges showing she is a member of "C.O.W.C.A.") I'll take it from here, eh? (She jumps upon the claw, which soon breaks, letting the truck get away) Coming through! Well, there's no catching up to them now.
Major Monogram: (On Perry's motorcycle's side mirror) Agent P. We've just received word that you're on Canadian soil. We don't have jurisdiction there. Stand down! That's an order!
Carl: Sorry Agent P. our hands are tied.
Monogram: Carl, don't interrupt me. Return to headquarters pronto.
C.O.W.C.A. Agent: Sorry.
(Perry chatters and drives away)
(A title slide says "Two Months Later")
(Song: "My Undead Mummy" (instrumental))
Phineas: Good morning Perry. Ready to start another fun day?
Ferb: Good morning Perry.
(Perry walks downstairs)
Linda: Hi Perry, how are you?
Candace: Okay mom, if you go out into the yard today, and there's nothing there, I'll... I'll clean the bathroom.
Linda: Candace, you were supposed to do that anyway.
Candace: So we have a deal?
(Perry continues walking, outside)
Buford: So what you're sayin' is that it advocates a mixed economy, with significant roles are played by the private sector, and the government?
Baljeet: No it.. actually, yes. That is what I was saying.
Buford: Hey Perry.
Isabella: Good morning Perry. Whatcha doin?
(Perry walks out of the backyard, and puts on his fedora. He then enters his base via a tree)
Major Monogram: Agent P. Doofenshmirtz was last seen boarding a train transporting Precious Albert the Moose. Cue the graphic Carl. (A picture of Albert the Moose appears) Albert the Moose is Canada's prized animal, who represents the unity of the provinces. We need you to make sure Doof keeps his mitts off that moose. If you fail, Canada Day Celebrations will be ruined, (The picture of Albert the Moose disappears, except for the antlers) and Canada will break into civil war. Or, since it's Canada, it would be a civil conversation where secession would be topic of discussion, and... (Monogram notices the moose antlers) Carl? Antlers?
Carl: Sorry sir.
Major Monogram: Now this train runs along the border between the United States and Canada, so you only have jurisdiction on the American side of the train. To help you out on the Canadian side of the train You'll be teaming up with an Agent from C.O.W.C.A. the Canadian Organization Without a Cool Acronym, Agent Lyla. (A picture of the woman from Perry's previous mission is shown) You may remember her from that special assignment for our Seattle Bureau we sent you on a couple of months ago. I know that didn't go too well but I expect you to be professional, and put that all behind you. Get out there and good luck. (Perry leaves in his hover jet) Carl? Can I- Can I have those antlers back?
Carl: Sure sir.
(The antlers re-appear on the monitor)
Major Monogram: Oh yeah! I'm rockin' this look!
(Perry's hover jet arrives a the train, and he repels out of it, but his line gets tangle with Lyla's)
Lyla: Woo hoo! Ah, Agent P. we meet again. Aw look at that face.
(Perry slaps her hands away from his face)
Lyla: I know, you work alone. But you'll see Mr. "I can do it all by myself", having someone can be just what you need there.
(Perry jump down into the train through the hole he just cut.)
Lyla: Hey! Where you going?
(Perry lands across a table from Doofenshmirtz who is eating lunch)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platypus, what an unexpected surpri--- (Perry moves to punch Doofenshmirtz) Oh, whoa, wait, wait, wait! You're trapped, by societal convention. Look, we're in a fine dinning environment, everyone knows not to thrown a scene in a fancy restaurant. That's right. You're trapped. Sit down.
(Lyla drops down)
Lyla: Oh shoot! I see we're trapped by societal convention.
Doofenshmirtz: Agent Lyla, from C.O.W.C.A.? IS this an international team up? Oh, you must hate that Perry the Platypus. A loner like you...
Lyla: Oh, come on, he's warming up to the idea.
Doofenshmirtz: Yes obviously.
Lyla: Why are you causing trouble in Canada, Doofenshmirtz?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, you see, I'm part of a U.S., Canada, evil scheme exchange program. I come up with a scheme, This other Canadian guy comes up with a scheme, and we switch. I do his scheme and he does mine.
Lyla: You gonna eat those fries?
Doofenshmirtz: Don't touch! Anyway I've got a little math quiz for the both of you. If a train carrying Precious Albert the Moose left British Columbia at eight o'clock in the morning, going eighty mile per hour, what time would it arrive at the Canada Day celebration? Answer? Never! Because I've tied up the conductor, and taken control of the train using my remote control Train-Operator-inator! Right now we are all headed to my scheme exchange partner's secret fortress. (Lyla reaches for the fries again) Hey cut it out, those are mine. Seriously, I can get the waiter over here if you want to order own, but please?
Lyla: This evil exchange partner of yours, what his name?
Doofenshmirtz: I think his name was Sir Railing, or Doctor Stairway, or something.
Lyla: Professor Bannister! Of course, my arch-nemesis. Can I put some gravy on those?
Doofenshmirtz: Seriously, leave my lunch alone. Anyway, after Professor Banister gets the moose, it's going to ruin Canada Day, or you know, whatever. Crazy, right?
Lyla: You know what's really crazy? How good these fries are.
Doofenshmirtz: I am not kidding, leave those alone. I just don't understand it, why do you take my lunch, when you're in the dining car you can have you're own lunch. Oh it makes me crazy when people pick at my food. (Lyla winks at Perry, and Perry understands) Seriously, why is your hand out like that? I am seriously going to lose it. (Perry takes a fry) Aw, now you're both doing it!? Stop it! Stop it! Ahh! Oh no, even taking them but just squishing them! I can't take it. (Doofenshmirtz stands up and screams loudly) Get your own lunch!
(Everyone on the train looks at Doofenshmirtz)
Woman: That man is causing such a scene, it make me feel free to break up with you, IN A VERY LOUD MANNER!
(Everybody in the car begins screaming and yelling)
Waiter: I can't stand being a waiter!
Doofenshmirtz: Very clever, you've completely dismantled my societal convention trap. (Doofenshmirtz runs off)
Lyla: Let's get that "n-ator"!
Doofenshmirtz: It's pronounced "-inator"
(Doofenshmirtz runs down another car, but trips)
Doofenshmirtz: (To the tied up conductor) You did that on purpose!
Lyla: Alright Doofenshmirtz, end of the line!
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, train metaphors, so that's how it--
(Perry and Doofenshmirtz fight over the -inator, which flies out of their hands)
Lyla: I've got it! (It hits her) Ow!
(Perry grabs the -inator)
Lyla: Let me se-, I know how to-, just give me-
(The -inator flies out of their hands, and Doofenshmirtz grabs it)
Doofenshmirtz: You know, I think I'm with Perry the Platypus on this, I don't like seeing him teamed up either. (Perry kicks Doofenshmirtz down)
Lyla: I don't know, I think he's warming up to it. Hey! That's the Canadian side of the train!
(Perry drags Doofenshmirtz over a bit to the American side of the train, then punches him)
Doofenshmirtz: Ow! You know I think I"m going back to the Canadian side.
Lyla: I've got this.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh no yo don't, I'm on the American side now, you can't touch me. (Perry throws a punch) Canada. (Lyla does the same) 'Merica. (Perry hits him) Ow! Oh, it's on now.
Lyla: As they all fight) Ha, take that. This is for William Hull, and the War of 1812, look it up kids. I've got him P, cuff him. Hold it, hold it, hold it. (Lyla, Perry and the Conductor rise from behind the seats) Ooh, Sorry. Where is he!
(The bathroom door is shown closing)
Lyla: Open up big guy.
Doofenshmirtz: Occupied.
Lyla: Oh, oh sorry, I didn't realize you had to uh..
Doofenshmirtz: You know what they have in here, they have those tiny soaps, they make my hands look so big, it's like I'm a giant. All set.
(Perry and Lyla enter the bathroom, only to see Doofenshmirtz is gone, and the window is open)
Lyla: I can't believe it! He left the seat up!
Doofenshmirtz: I'm up here Perry the Platypus! (to the audience) You knew we'd end up up here eventually right?
(Perry climbs up to get Doofenshmirtz)
Lyla: P? Wait up!
(She climbs up as well, and they begin to chase Doofenshmirtz)
Lyla: He's getting away!
(The train take a sharp turn, and Lyla looses her balance, hanging on by just one hand.)
Lyla: Ah! Perry! Hey! Help me up!
(Perry grabs her, and they both fall off the train)
Lyla: Oops, sorry. My bad, eh? Hey look! An old time-y handcar! I've got an idea, come on.
(Song: "Handcar")
Lyla: P, what are you doing? This is a handcar; there's a trick to it! Look, if we're going to catch the train, we're going to have to work together. We've gotta get in sync, develop a rhythm. Watch, I'll show you.
Lyla: ♪ Yours goes up when mine goes down ♪
♪ And then we do it the other way around ♪
♪ Don't you give me that sigh, 'cause if we can't see eye to eye ♪
♪ Then our missions will be always filled with strife, ♪
♪ 'Cause a handcar is a metaphor for life ♪
♪ For life... ♪
(As the handcar starts to speed up, the music gradually gets faster)
Lyla: Don't push up, just push down; I'll push down on my side. That's it! That's right. Here we go!!!!
(The music starts going even faster)
Lyla: Ah, I see a little platypus smile there! That's right! Now we're cookin' with gas! See? It's better when we work together!
Lyla: ♪ We're on a handcar (Handcar!) ♪
♪ Yeah, we're gettin' in the groove ♪
♪ We're on a handcar (Handcar!) ♪
♪ It's the only way to move ♪
♪ We're on a handcar (Handcar!) ♪
♪ We're like a well-oiled machine ♪
♪ We're on a handcar (Handcar!) ♪
♪ Yeah, we're workin' like a team ♪
♪ We're on a handcar (Handcar!) ♪
♪ We're a real double-header ♪
♪ It's a heavy-handed metaphor ♪
♪ For how we work together! ♪
♪ It's a handcar! (Handcar!) ♪
♪ Yeah, we're on a handcar! (Handcar!) ♪
♪ We're on a handcar (Handcar!) ♪
♪ Yeah, we're on a handcar! ♪
Man: Excuse me, conductor? (Doofenshmirtz walks over) You know the train doesn't seem to be stopping at any of the scheduled stations.
Doofenshmirtz: Is that a fact? My apologies straphanger. Wait, which one was your stop?
Man: The next one.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, don't be concerned, step right this way.
(The Man and Doofenshmirtz are standing at a door)
Doofenshmirtz: So your wife is cooking dinner tonight?
Man: Oh, yes. We're having asparagus tips.
Doofenshmirtz: Asparagus tips, very classy. What's the entrée?
Man: Nova Scotia salmon.
Doofenshmirtz: Mmm-Mmm. Delish! Here's your-STATION!! (Doofenshmirtz kicks the man out the door) Say "hi" to your wife for me.
(The man tumble across a field, through a playground, then into his house.)
Wife: Well, someone's home early.
Man: The conductor says "hi".
Man on Train: Hey look fellow commuters, it's a lady!
Woman: And a platypus.
Woman 2: On a handcar.
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (He pulls out his phone) My cellphone alert says there's a new platypus video online, that's trending. (He sees the video) Perry the Platypus! And Agent Lyla? On an old time-y-- (Perry come in and kick Doofenshmirtz down, causing him to spin on his head) Oh! Ha! Bet you can't do that. I learned that in the 80's. I also learned how to back away slowly on a newly installed escape platform! Ha! So long suckers! And now to watch my evil plan play out from the observat-- This, this is an observation deck? Chair nailed to a roof?
Man: Your blocking my view of Saskatchewan, eh?
Doofenshmirtz: Saskatchewan is that way, you dolt!
Lyla: Hold it right there Doofenshmirtz.
Doofenshmirtz: No you hold it right there. Because I still have this! The Train-Operator-inator! Without it the train would be completely--
(The train enters a tunnel and smashes the -inator)
Lyla: Oh boy.
Doofenshmirtz: ...out of control.
(Meanwhile back in Danville)
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?

Part II
Doofenshmirtz: Alright so I'm on a runaway train in a tunnel. Afraid of the dark, I- probably also afraid of runaway trains, never really given it much thought. Doesn't come up that.. (They leave the tunnel) Ahh!
Lyla: Okay let's focus, there's got to be an emergency brake in the engine car. Let's go.
(Perry and Lyla begin running across the top of the train)
Doofenshmirtz: So I... I guess I'll go with you then.(Doofenshmirtz begins to run as well, then stops) Wait up Perry the Platypus, my shoe's untied. Just hang on a second. (Lyla and Perry stop) You can't be too careful when you're running across a moving train. There we go. On second thought, I'll double knot this. Okay let's go! (Doofenshmirtz walks forward and falls through a hole) Ahh! Aww, gross some joker left the seat up. Would you guys mind bringing me some paper towels, or something? (Lyla and Perry continue running) No?
(They get to the engine car, and hop in)
Lyla: The emergency brake is toast, I'm going to have to jury-rig the controls. Darn it!
(Doofenshmirtz enters the car)
Doofenshmirtz: If we weren't in the middle of a runaway train crisis, I would totally be giving you a hard time about leaving me in the toilet bowl.
Lyla: Now let me just get the red wire... Ah-ha! Bingo!
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, not to burst your bubble, but I don't think we're slowing down.
Lyla: We're not, I just got the hazard lights working. Safety first. The brakes were too far gone to fix. Now we just need to get all the passengers and Precious Albert the Moose into the same car, and we can save them. (Perry chatters) You're right! The caboose! Let's go!
Doofenshmirtz: This is why I'd rather not make friends, they find someone else, and "Bam!" you're alone.
Lyla: (Over the announcement system) Attention passengers, there is no need to panic, but--
(All the passengers scream, and run towards the caboose)
Butler: Pardon the interruption, Precious Albert, Sir, but your tea is ready.
(Albert begins to drink his tea, but is interrupted by all of the passengers flooding into the caboose)
Lyla: Folks, everything is under control, eh? We're going to separate the caboose from the rest of the train. (Lyla see the caboose has become disconnected, speak to Perry) Oh, you already did it. Nice going partner. I'm going to take a pic of this and send it to C.O.W.C.A.
Doofenshmirtz: We're saved. We did it! (everybody cheers)
(The caboose get pinched by two metal pincers) 
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, I swear that wasn't me.
(The caboose gets lifted into the air by Banister's helicopter)
Lyla: Banister! I should've known. You thinking what I'm thinking?
(Lyla and Perry climb to the top of the car, and fire their grappling hooks into the helicopter, and get lifted away)
Doofenshmirtz: (Now on top of the caboose) Aw, man, I never have a grappling hook when I need one. And I totally looked at mine this morning when I was getting dressed. Right there on the dresser. I hate it when that happens.
(In the helicopter)
Bannister: Well, well, well. If it isn't C.O.W.C.A.'s best agent, the unfortunately named, Lyla Lolliberry.
Lyla: Listen you, I come from a long alliterative line of Lolliberrys.
Bannister: And now you're trapped, miles above solid ground, with nothing but a beaver at your side.
Doofenshmirtz: (Climbing into the helicopter) He's a platypus, not a beaver. Hiya Banny! Pardon me, official exchange buddy coming through. (To Bannister) Yo, bro. Back so soon? My evil plan usually takes all day. How'd you do it so fast?
Bannister: Well I'll tell you. It went a little something like this: (In Bannister's flashback; Bannister flips the switch on Doofenshmirtz's -inator to "on", then leaves)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, I guess if you've got no one to monologue to...
Lyla: Enough backstory.
Doofenshmirtz: Actually that's not uh, that's not really a backstory, it's just expositional flashback. It doesn't uh, have any childhood trauma. It doesn't really form who he is. It's not... It's just flashback, there's a difference. It's suble, but there's a difference. (To Bannister) Anyway you're not the only productive one. I've taken care of your moose problem.
Bannister: Perfect! No Albert the Moose. No Canada Day.
Lyla: And you call yourself a Canadian!
Banister: Do I? You think that just because I'm polite, smell like pine needles, and over emphasize me T's, I'm Canadian? Well, you'd be wrong! Because I'm from Greenland! (Bannister tears down the Canadian flag hanging on the wall, revealing the flag of Greenland, cue dramatic music)
(Lyla and Doofenshmirtz gasp)
Doofenshmirtz: Cool flag.
Bannister: Thanks. Wait! No it's not! And that's the problem! We have no national pride! I mean listen to this: (He plays a song) Greenland's National Anthem. Seriously! Does that inspire you to do anything other than icefish? But Canada? Oh they've got it all. The maple syrup. The national parks. The medal winning curling team. And the Moose. The moose! The symbol of Canada's National Pride! Precious Albert the Moose! What if he were to disappear? Everyone would lapse into a deep malaise. Forgetting what it means to be Canadian. I will then annex Canada to Greenland! Bring back Precious Albert, and reinvigorate the national pride! And I've written a new national anthem.
(Song: "Greenland National Anthem)
Bannister: ♪ Oh, Greenland, ♪
♪ Home of things that aren't so green, ♪
♪ Though we call it Greenland. ♪
♪ Shiny Greenland, ♪
♪ People are very short there ♪
♪ In Greenland. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: You're from Greenland! Do you know how it meant from mis-representing you country of origin to the L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. Organization? Plus your scheme is unnecessary complicated and doesn't even seem like it would work! And that's coming from me!
Banister: It's the perfect plan! Yes it will. See, he agrees. Will you stop it?
Lyla: Who is he talking to?
Banister: Oh, how rude of me, allow me to introduce... (Banister removes his lab coat revealing two robots) Me-Positive, and Me-Negative! They're two magnetic robots I created for the purpose of vanquishing my enemies!
Doofenshmirtz: Magnetic robots?
Bannister: Yes, because it's all about polarity! You can't have two positives, or two negatives.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, you can have two negatives, just look at my family.
Lyla: Wait a second. Those robot parts look familiar. 
Bannister: Oh, right. I got them from some friends of mine. I think you may have met in Seattle. (Banister mentions to the thugs in the truck from Seattle, who are playing cards)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, those guys have been playing cards really quietly.
Lyla: I remember them. But I knew they would lead me to you, Banister. That's why I let them escape.
Bannister: Never mind them. Me-Positive, and Me-Negative can take care of you.
Lyla: Oh I get it, we're going to have an old fashioned helicopter fight.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh a helicopter fight? These can get really nasty. I'm just going to go play cards.
(Song "Helicopter Fight")
♪ If you're looking for action, better hold on tight ♪
♪ (Helicopter fight, helicopter fight) ♪
♪ L-l-l-looks like we got ourselves a helicopter fight ♪
♪ (Helicopter fight, helicopter fight) ♪
♪ To remove any confusion from ambiguous writing ♪
♪ (Helicopter fight, helicopter fight) ♪
♪ This is people fighting on a helicopter, ♪
♪ Not two helicopters fighting (Ooohhhhh!) ♪
♪ Though that would have been cool, (Yeah?) ♪
♪ It might have been more exciting (You think?) ♪
♪ Let's take a look ♪
... (Two helicopters are seen fighting)
♪ No, that looked better in my head, ♪
♪ Let's just get back to the action ♪
♪ That was really pretty lame, ♪
♪ I apologize for the distraction ♪
♪ This is a helicopter fight! ♪
♪ (People fighting on a helicopter) ♪
♪ This is a helicopter fight! ♪
♪ (People fighting on a helicopter) ♪
♪ This is a helicopter fight! ♪
♪ (It's not two helicopters fighting, oh no ♪
♪ We saw it, but it was only so-so... ♪
♪ This is people fighting on a helicopter! ♪
Banister: What!? (He throws the flag of Greenland over Lyla and Perry) I have just one thing to say to you Lyla Loliberry, (He jumps from the helicopter) Farväl!
Lyla: What does "farväl" mean?
Banister: It's Swedish for "goodbye". It's one of the languages we speak in Greenla--
(Bannister is grabbed out of the sky by Peter the Panda's plane)
Bannister: Jinx you Lyla Lolliberry. Jinx you!
(Perry shows Lyla a picture of the fight)
Lyla: Way to text in the cavalry. Okay, let's get this bird off to Canada day. We have a guest of honor to deliver.
(At the Canada Day Celebration)
Man: Go Canada! Go, eh?
Man 2: Way to go Constitution Act of 1864!
Man: Right on!
Man 2: WooOoo!
Lyla: So now you see why I had to let those guys go, right P.?
Doofenshmirtz: Well how was he supposed to know you had a tracker on their truck?
Lyla: He understands how these things are. One minute your catching a thief the next you get intel they might be leading you somewhere bigger and better.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, and by "bigger and better" you obviously mean me! Right? Right?
Lyla: Yeah, right. Anyway. You've got some serious skills there P.
(Perry Chatters)
Lyla: Stop, you're making me blush.
Monogram: Good work to the both of you. I can see things went well with our neighbors to the North.
Doofenshmirtz: Well now that our mission is done--
Lyla: Our mission?
Doofenshmirtz: ...maybe we could drop by Niagara Falls. It's so close by, and I've always wanted to see it.
Monogram: Well I suppose we could swing by on our way back.
(Peter, Lyla, Perry, Doofenshmirtz, Carl, and Monogram all observe Niagara Falls in silence, then slowly leave a la Ocean's Eleven)
Doofenshmirtz: I wonder how my scheme worked out for Professor Banister. I'm sure that Cloud Magnitizer-inator was a winner.
(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Candace: Mom! Mom! Mom! Hey Perry.(Bends down to pets him) Mom! Mom! Mom!
Phineas: How was it that a cloud was able to carry off our metal superstructure?
Candace: But, but, but...
Linda: Someone's got a bathroom to clean. Everyone else, there's pie.
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry.
Ferb: Ah, a platypus's life is a life of leisure.
Phineas: Yes, yes it is.

End credits
Monogram: We'd like to apologize on behalf of the show, for poking a little fun at Greenland. The Greenland flag is actually verifiable cool. It was designed by Thue Christiansen as part of a flag designing contest in the 80's... Is this actually true, Carl?
Carl: According to the internet, sir.
Monogram: Well, what do you know? Also we understand that the people of Greenland do have enormous national pride, and are not necessarily short. This was all purely in the interest of comedy, and not meant to be taken seriously. Go Greenland!



Part 1
(Dramatic music plays, starts with gray "space" and black "shadows", Perry's silhouette is shown weaving in and out of the shadows, Camera zooms out to show the word "Primal" in gray, then the word "Perry" appears beneath it in red with "spikes". The words "Phineas and Ferb present" appear above the words "Primal Perry". Scene cuts to the Flynn-Fletcher household. Dramatic music ends)

(Song: "My Undead Mummy" (instrumental))
(A bus reading "Danville Botanical Gardens" drives past; indoors, we see Perry walking through a doorway)
Major Monogram: Psst! Agent P!
(Perry looks around, confused)
Major Monogram: I'm in here! (Perry turns and moves to side of the vent Major Monogram is in, and puts his fedora on) Sorry for the break-in protocol, but this is urgent. Show him the photo,Carl.
(Camera pans right to show smaller vent to the side of Monogram's)
Carl: Yes sir. Here, Agent P. (Slides photo out of the vent, which Perry takes)
(Over Perry's shoulder, we see in the photo an alien shaking hands with a dragon, with a UFO in the background)
Major Monogram: Notice anything unusual, Agent P? Look closer, it's very subtle. (Perry stares down at it, wide-eyed) Here, use this. (Slides out a magnifying glass from the vent, Perry takes it and holds it up to his eye) See that small cluster of clouds? (Camera zooms in on the magnified clouds) It spells "Doof"! And "Doof" is short for "Doofenshmirtz"! (Perry puts down the photo and magnifying glass) That cloud is directly above the Danville Batanical Gardens! Two hundred acres of ecological diverse natural area. We need you to get out there and find out what Doof is. . .doofing! Here, (slides out a card from inside the vent) take my membership card. (Perry takes it and looks at it doubtfully) You get free parking and you get 15 percent off at the gift shop.
Carl: Sir, it says "non-transferrable" right at the bottom!
Major Monogram: Oh, Carl, they never look at the photo. Anyway, get out there, Agent P, and good luck! (Perry salutes, then leaves) And make sure to stop and smell the roses! Well. . . he never stops to smell the roses.
Carl: I know, sir.
(scene cuts to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard, with Buford, Phineas and Ferb)
Buford: In fact, it was the ancient Tunisians who actually developed many of the techniques still used today.
Phineas: Wow, Buford. I didn't realize the wedgie had such a rich history.
Baljeet: (offscreen) HEEELP!!! (Runs onscreen) Help! Phineas and Ferb, and to a lesser extent, Buford! I am having an existential emergency! I find myself incapable of making decisions!
Buford: (Raises eyebrow) Is that a fact? You'd better sit down.
Baljeet: Okay. (Sits down)
Buford: Come to think of it, maybe your point would be better made standing up.
Baljeet: You are right! (stands up and puts finger up, about to speak)
Buford:Then again, you look kind of tired.
Baljeet: You are﻿ right. I'd better -- (proceeds to sit down again, but stops as he realizes what Buford is doing) CUT IT OUT!
Phineas: How did you get in such a state, Baljeet?
Baljeet: Well, I was filling out my early college admission forms, and I-
Phineas: Whoa, Baljeet! College is, like, 9 years away!
Baljeet: I said early. Anyway, under personal preferences, I could not decide whether to select 'Loop' or 'String' theory. I was paralyzed with indecision!
Phineas:(gets to his feet) Oh, come on, that's easy! Loop! No, String! No- (Realizes where Baljeet is coming from) oh.
Baljeet: Right? Then I started thinking about how important it is to make the right decision on everything! You see, every choice carries with it its own potential timeline. So every decision I make effectively nullifies the possible future! I can't even choose which flavour of ice-cream to order. If I choose vanilla, that may set me on the path to the presidency. But if I have strawberry, I could get hit by a bus!
Buford: Well it's simple then. Don't choose the strawberry.
Baljeet: You are missing the point! I would not know that I chose strawberry I would get hit by a bus, I am just saying that every decision we make has unforseen repercussions!
Ferb: Actually ice-cream sounds pretty good.
Phineas: Yeah it does!
Baljeet: If it is okay with you, I have prepared a little presentation to illustrate my point. (opens up laptop)
(Song: "Improbably Knot")
Baljeet: ♪ Don't know which choice to choose when people ask ♪
♪ Not sure which task to take, or take to task ♪
♪ I don't know which is best, or which is bad ♪
♪ I'm like a question mark, or hanging chad ♪
♪ Even doing nothing is still a choice like I must make ♪
♪ I'm paralyzed by fear that it will all become a big mistake ♪
Robots: ♪ Everything is probable, nothing is impossible ♪
♪ Choices left to random chance are highly irresponsible ♪
♪ Everything is probable, nothing is impossible ♪
♪ Choices left to random chance are highly irresponsible ♪
Baljeet: March, my little off-the-shelf 3-D package robots!
I do not know what to choose!
I do not want to lose!
Robots: ♪ Everything is probable, nothing is impossible ♪
Baljeet: (closes laptop) I am sorry, everyone. It sounded a lot better in my head.
Buford: Exactly what time did you get up this morning?
Phineas: What if you could make both choices? Would that make you feel better?
Baljeet: Yes! I mean no. I mean yes and no. I mean I do not know!
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're-
Buford: Wait, let me interrupt you! Where's Perry?
(scene cuts to Danville Botanical Gardens, wher Dr. Doofenshmirtz is busy making smoke signals)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, I had no idea that making smoke signals was so complicated! (Perry hops onscreen) Perry the Platypus!
Ruth: Excuse me, (scene switches to where two ladies, Ruth and Esther, are standing)you are in clear violation of the garden rules!
Doofenshmirtz: (to Perry) Docents. (To ladies, causally) So, uh, what seems to be the problem, ladies?
Ruth: You are showing blatant disregard for our signage!
Doofenshmirtz: (Looks down and realizes that he is leaning on a sign that reads,"Keep Off The Grass" in red letters) It's all good, ladies. I am a card carrying Danville Botanical Gardens club member. (pulls out card) See? Here's my card! And I'm carrying it!(Esther takes card from him and takes out a laser pen and proceeds to scan the card)
Ruth: Then you should know better, Mr Doofenshmirtz.
Doofenshmirtz: Oof!(Exclaims as Esther sharply nudges him in the gut) And i-it's Doctor Doofenshmirtz. Okay, bye! (to Perry) See how cool I was with them, huh? (Perry's eyes flick to the camera, and he gives the audience a doubtful look) So, Perry the Platypus, I'll bet you're wondering why I haven't trapped you yet. It's because I've hired someone else to do it for me! (On cue, a boomerang flies on screen and slams into Perry. Scene cuts to show Perry tied up and suspended from an arbor) Hehe! Perry the Platypus, meet Platypus hunter Liam McCracken! I found him on an evil consultant website.
Liam: Semi-aquatic egg-laying mammals, I can't stand the sight of 'em. And you know what? I'll tell you why. (to Doofenshmirtz) D'you mind?
Doofenshmirtz: No! You know what? Why don't you do the backstory today?
Liam: Back in Australia, I had a good life, but platypuses ruined everything. You see, when I was young, (cue ripple effect, flashback to when Liam was a baby. Baby Liam is seen in a stroller gnawing on a boomerang)
Liam's mother: (In flashback, as she pushes baby Liam's stroller) Aww, does he like his boomerang, does he? (notices a platypus near the stroller) Oh my, look at the cute lil' platypus! Hello, cute little fella! (scene changes to show that she and Liam's stroller are at the top of a hill) Hold still! (stroller starts to roll away) That's right. . .  Saay. . . Musk lily!(flashback ends)
Liam:. . . And I never saw me mum again. It was on that day that I swore revenge on platypuses.
Doofenshmirtz: "Platypuses"?
Liam: No, no,  I know, it sounds wrong, but it's actually right.
Doofenshmirtz: I always thought it was "platypi".
Liam: That's also acceptable. They're vile creatures, not to be trusted. . . (scene cuts to a close -up of his face) . . . the only mammals with poisonous ankle barbs-
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, (turns to Perry) you have a poisonous ankle barb? How come I never knew that?
Liam: Well I'm prepared. I've got my own poisonous ankle barbs. And a little somethin' else up my sleeve. I'd like you to meet the ladies. (Opens up jacket to reveal rows of boomerangs, cue dramatic music. Perry stares at him) (Points to the boomerangs) This here is Nancy, Barbara, Jill, Lauren, (in background) Anne, Nancy, Tracy 1, Tracy 2, Troan, 41, 52, Stacy, Panavise, Jaharrison...
Doofenshmirtz: (Turns to Perry) In all fairness, Perry the Platypus, there was nothing in his profile about, you know, naming his boomerangs. Even I find that a little creepy.
(Scene cuts to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Isabella: Hey, Phineas! Whatcha' doin'?
Phineas: You're just in time, Isabella! In order to help Baljeet with his decision-making crisis, we've built the Infinite Probability Generator. (zoom out to show a giant contraption in the backyard) Once Baljeet's been through the machine's Infinite Imprinter, he'll be fundamentally altered at the probable level. (Candace peeks out from behind the tree, binouculars in hand) Then, anytime he comes to a place where he has to make a choice, (shows Baljeet going into the machine) he'll split into two probability Baljeets.
Isabella: Allowing him to experience the consequences of both timelines?
Phineas: Exactly, Isabella! Hit it, Ferb! (Ferb does so, machine starts to whir and move with Baljeet in it)
Isabella: I love it when you guys tamper with the forces of nature.
Phineas: I know, right?
Buford: Is science happening yet?
Baljeet: I-I-I a-am fee-eling nau-usea-ated!!
Buford: Yep,that sounds like science to me.
Candace: (looks through binoculars) Ohhhh, this is so bustable.
Phineas: Alright, Ferb, let's get him outta there! (machine stops whirring, Baljeet is lowered, he falls from his seat onto the ground with a splat)
Buford: Now how're ya feeling, Baljeet?
Baljeet: Effervescent and frothy.
Buford: Just like my mom's homemade toothpaste!
Phineas: C'mon, buddy, get up! (helps Baljeet up)
Buford: How come he ain't split in two yet?
Phineas: Because he hasn't made a choice yet. (Music is heard)
Buford: Oh boy! It's the ice-cream guy!
Isabella: Oh, I thought it was someone's phone.
Phineas: Come on, Baljeet! Let's see if the Infinite Improbability Generator worked!
(As Phineas says this, scene cuts to show Candace with an eerie smile on her face, she climbs over the backyard fence)
(All walk to the ice-cream truck. Throughout this, Candace sneaks behind the ice cream truck and peeks out from behind)
Phineas: Howdy, Mike! My good friend Baljeet here would like to sample your fine frozen confections
Mike: Alright, Baljeet, what flavour? Vanilla or strawberry?
Phineas: Carpe diem, Baljeet. Carpe diem!
Baljeet: One vanilla- (he suddenly splits in two, Phineas backs away)
(Cut to Candace who stares in surprise. She smiles wickedly, then hides behind the truck)
Second Baljeet:-and one strawberry!
Mike: Weird. And I've also got banana splits!
Phineas: (Laughs) Good one, Mike.
Mike: Here you go. Vanilla and strawberry. (drives away)
First Baljeet: Now I am beside myself.
Second Baljeet: And I like it!
Phineas: (Laughs) That's very clever, Second Baljeet.
(Throughout above, the truck drives away revealing Candace, back turned. She runs away in shock)
Second Baljeet: Now that I have made both choices, I will no longer miss any opp- (DBG bus returns, hits Second Baljeet) What do you know! I was right!
Buford: Wow, tough break.
First Baljeet: Yes. . . but that means I am going to become President!
(scene cuts to show the small vent in the Flynn-Fletcher house which Carl was in earlier)
Major Monogram: Carl? Carl! Where are you?
Carl: I'm over here, sir! (pans right to show bigger vent, the one Major Monogram was in earlier)
Major Monogram: How did you get over there?
Carl: I was coming to see you! Why are you over there?
Major Monogram: I'm trying to get out of here! What are you trying to do?
Carl: Well, I was looking for you so that we could leave together!
Major Monogram: Oh, for Pete's sake.
(scene cuts, returns to Danville Botanical Gardens, we see Doofenshmirtz still standing with his back to Perry, Perry is seen pulling a pair of scissors out of his fedora)
Liam:. . . Danni, oh, and this shiny girl came all the way from Greece. I call her- (notices that Perry has escaped) What the blazes?!
Doofenshmirtz: (turns and sees that Perry has escaped) See, I told you he was good! Now, about your refund policy. . .
Liam: (to Perry) That hat don't make you special. you're still a platypus. (At this, Perry narrows his eyes and chatters defiantly) I'm gonna make you eat those words . . .(stops uncertainly) or that noise. You and your hat are gonna make a fine addition to my trophy room.
Doofenshmirtz: Trophy room? Whoa-whoa hold on a second, I just hired you to trap Perry the Platypus, not- (steps onto trap, trap snaps shut with Doofenshmirtz inside)
Liam: Consider me off the clock, doc. (throws boomerang at Perry, Perry dodges, but it returns, ropes burst out of its middle and trap Perry, while the boomerang returns to Liam's hand)
Doofenshmirtz: What is this, is this a hammock? If it's a hammock, it's way too tight. (Liam takes no notice, instead grabs rope and starts pulling Perry towards him, Perry struggles and resists, but is unable to, Liam grabs his fedora and slaps one end of a handcuff onto Perry's wrist) Uh-oh, (sticks one hand out of the 'hammock') Mr McCraken, I think you caught me by mistake!
Liam: (slaps other end of handcuff onto Dr. Doofenshmirtz's wrist) No mistake there, doc. You're either with me, or against me. Come to think of it, I don't have a pharmacist on my trophy wall. . . yet.
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, whoa whoa whoa, what do 'you mean, "yet"?
Liam: I'm giving you sixty seconds head-start before the hunt commences.
Doofenshmirtz: I don't even know what you're talking about. (turns to the fedora-less Pery) Who's this platypus? Why am I handcuffed to him? Where is Perry the platypus? (Liam just ignores him) So to recap in order of importance, why am I handcuffed to him?
Liam: So as to make it easier to hunt the both of you. Now, run.
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, fair enough. (is pulled away by Perry) Whooa!! (scene changes to show Perry pulling Doofenshmirtz as they run through the garden, Doof talks but Perry ignores) Wow! You know, I really shouldn't have ignored the ninety-seven percent of customer feedback that says he tends to go rogue. So, I guess we should introduce ourselves. My name is Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz and you being a platypus, you can't talk to tell me your. . . you know what? I'm just gonna call you Steven, is that alright? You look like a Steven to me. (stops and sniffs the air, looks off to his right and sees a rasher of bacon hanging in midair) Bacon! What luck! I have really worked up an appetite with all this eluding. (moves toward the bacon, but Perry narrows his eyes at it,hooks his foot around the leg of a nearby park bench and kicks causing it to fall onto the area below the bacon, a trap snaps shut around it. Liam, some distance away, looks up at the recently activated trap)
Doofenshmirtz: Whoa, it was a trap?! I did not see that coming!
Liam: (to boomerang in hand) Alright, Nancy. Don't hold anything back, love. (throws Nancy, Nancy flies and takes a chunk out of a tree near to where Perry and Doofenshmirtz are, tree falls, Perry only just manages to pull Doofenshmirtz out of the way in time, Nancy returns to Liam's hand) What took you so long?
(scene cuts to show Flynn-Fletcher backyard, with Buford and the two Baljeets. Second Baljeet has his arm in a sling)
Buford: Alright, you two, let's get somethin' straight here. There'll be NO messin' with the Buford. Don't make no diff how many of you there are!
Second Baljeet: I would never mess with you, Buford!
First Baljeet: Neither would I!
Buford: That's good, 'cause I've still got ya number! Or would that be 'numbers'? (Candace enters, grabs both Baljeets and leaves) Hey, Baljeet, which one would be grammatically correct? (Gasps as he suddenly notices that both Baljeets have disappeared) How rude.
(scene changes to show the Flynn-Fletcher kitchen)
Linda: Finally getting 'round to spring cleaning in the summer. First up, the fridge.
Candace: (enters, bringing in both Baljeets, but one of them is blocked by the fridge door) Mom! Look at this! (closes eyes) Look what Phineas and Ferb did!
First Baljeet: Hello, Mrs Flynn-Fletcher.
Linda: Hello, Baljeet. (Candace's eyes open) How's your mom doing? (sniffs at a bowl of gray gunk thoughtfully before dropping it into the dustbin)
First Baljeet: Oh, she is doing well!
(Candace looks down in surprise. She pushes fridge door closed and is shocked to see that the second Baljeet disappeared. Linda barely notices)
Linda: That's good. That's nice. Would you like a snack?
Baljeet: Something to drink if you have it.
(Throughout this, Candace has a shocked expression on her face. She looks down and taps her fingers)
Linda: (Opens fridge door) Let's see. I've got some grape juice and orange juice.
First Baljeet: I would like grape juice. 
(Baljeet suddenly splits in two, Candace looks on in shock)
Third Baljeet: And orange juice!
Candace: (gestures to both Baljeets) Mom!
Linda: (has her back to them, so she can't see them) My, someone's thirsty. Oh, there's more juice down here. (Bends down) Let's see. I've got... (bends up) pineapple, mango and tomato.
Baljeets: (as they split) Pineapple! Mango! Tomato!
Linda: Ooookay, Baljeet. You weren't kidding, (bends down to show that four Baljeets have collected behind her) you really were thirsty!
Candace: Mom!!!
(scene changes to show Danville Botanical Gardens once more)
Doofenshmirtz: (to Perry) Hehheh, I think we lost him, you can slow down now.(Perry stops near a lake) I just said "slow down", I didn't say "stop". What are you looking at? (Perry stares out onto the lake, a determined look on his face) Oh no, we are NOT going- (cries out as Perry pulls him into the water) Hoo! That's cold! (Perry continues swimming downwards, Doof continues talking with his head out of the water) Wow, you're like a little motorboat there, Steven. (exclaims again as Perry pulls him in once more, Liam arrives at the lake shore, we see him putting on his gear, all of which is platypus-themed. Liam jumps into the water, he takes out a kind of slingshot boomerang and fires it at Perry. Perry sees this, and quickly digs up a large flat stone and uses it to shield himself, boomerang bounces off. Liam grabs Perry's tail, but lets go when Perry swipes him across the face with his ankle barb. Perry and Doof resurface) Wow, Steven, that was sweet! You've really good at that-that barb thing. (Perry suddenly notices something downstream and starts swimming upstream) What? Why are you turning around? Don't go back that way, that put-me-on-the trophy-wall guy is back there. (comes to a water fall) Oh, I see, a waterfall. Just in time for commercial. Isn't that convenient. (Both Doofenshmirtz and Perry go over the waterfall and start falling) What's that all about, anyway? It's not a clifffaller, it's called a cliffhanger, and here we are, falling, and-watch watch watch, here we go, wait, look, yup yup see? There you go! Fading to black!

Part 2
Liam: I know you're down there, ya platypus. And I'm gonna find ya.
Doofenshirtz: (Perry climbs out of the waterfall plunge pool with Doof close behind) Hey! Hang on there, Steven. I'm tired of running. And I don't mean tired like, I need to sit down for a while, I mean although I am tired and I do need to sit down for a- I mean- I'm fed up with that guy! And with your animal instincts and my vast knowledge of science, I think we can make a stand. What do you say? Are you with me? (Perry pauses for a while, then gives Doof a thumbs-up. We then see a montage showing Doof and Perry gathering wooden poles and placing them in a tree, lifting a statue with ropes, Perry stopping to sniff a rose before making use of its thorns to make a rope, which is then twined tightly around some Cattail reeds which in turn, are placed in the lake. Perry is seen moving a stone with his bill to hold them down, Perry and Doofenshmirtxz are seen constructing a cage of some sort with the poles from before and string, Perry climbs a tree to pull some of its bark down. This is used to make a glove, which Doofenshmirtz wears and uses to crush a pear. All of this happens while the dramatic music from the start of the episode plays) Groovy!
(Scene switches to the Flynn-Fletcher living room, where seven Baljeets have gathered)
Baljeet #1: I wonder if the others would like some juice.
Baljeet #2: We should take some out to them!
Baljeet #3: What about Buford?
Baljeet #1 Indeed, what about Buford?
Baljeet #4: What has he ever done for us?
Baljeet #5: You mean to us!
Baljeet #2: Yeah! He can get his own juice!
All other Baljeets: Yeah!
Baljeet #1: The jerk!
Lawrence: (Walks in) Oh, hello, boys! Are we having a party, Baljeet? And Baljeet and. . . wait a moment, if he's Baljeet you must be. . . ?
All the Baljeets at once: Baljeet!
Lawrence:. . . Oh all right then, carry on! (exits room)
Baljeet #4: So, we are agreed. No juice for Buford.
Baljeet #2: Yeah! (Stands up) No juice for Buford. Come on! (Runs out)
(Scene switches back to Danville Botanical Gardens. Perry is turning a wheel, which turns the sprinklers on, creating a mist)
Liam: (sees the sprinklers turning on) Now, what's all this, then? (stands up and walks away as the sprinklers all around him turn on, spraying him) (To boomerangs) Alright, Jill, something's not right. Be a love and have a look around. (Throws Jill, which is caught by glove made by Doofenshmirtz earlier. Liam stands where he is and waits for Jill around, but continues walking forward when she does not return ) Jill? Jill? Where are ya? (turns around and sees Jill wedged in the trunk of a tree) Ah, there you are. I thought maybe you'd taken off from me. (moves to remove Jill from the tree, but find that she is, instead, fastened to the tree by a pull string) What the blazes? (Pull string activates underwater bows, which fire arrows made from the rose thorns and cattail reeds Perry had earlier, which strike Liam. He runs away, crying out in shock and pain. As he runs, he activates a trip wire that causes a water fountain to spray a powerful jet of water at him, while, overhead, a boulder rolls down a track made from two wooden poles and knocks a statue out of a tree, which Liam narrowly dodges. The statue, however, knocks a weighted rope net out of a tree, which falls onto Liam, trapping him successfully) Oof!
Doofenshmirtz: (Laughs triumphantly) We did it, Steven! High five!
Liam: So you think you've bested old Liam and his ladies? Sue begs to differ. (throws out a tiny boomerang which cuts the ropes of his net, Liam stands and pulls out another boomerang) I call this one Sharpay. 'Cuz she's sharp, eh? (throws Sharpay, which cuts Perry's and Doofenshmirtz's handcuffs, separating them. Sharpay returns to Liam, who growls in frustration. Freed, Doofenshmirtz and Perry run off) It's all right, Sharpay, I'll give you another chance. (throws, Sharpay, hits Doofenshmirtz, who slams nito a tree.)
Doofenshmirtz: Whoa!!
Liam: (catches and pockets Sharpay) That's my girl.
Doofenshmirtz: Ooh, ow(clutches knee in pain) . . . Steven!! (Perry, some distance away, on top of a small hill, looks up) Heelp!!
Liam: This looks like a job for Natasha! (Pulls out a giant boomerang from under his coat and throws it. Perry dives, avoiding the boomerang, which sails away into the distance.)
(Scene switches to that of the Flynn-Fletcher household kitchen)
Candace: (walks into the kitchen with one of the Baljeets) Okay, Mom, I'm going to replicate the anomaly right in front of you.
Linda: Fine. What is it, Candace?
Candace: Look closely. How many Baljeets do you see standing here?
Linda: One, Candace. There is only one Baljeet, after all. (Winks at Baljeet)
Baljeet: Why, thank you, Mrs. Flynn-Fletcher! That is very kind of you to say.
Candace: She's talking numbers, kid. Don't get a big head. Okay, mom, now watch what happens when he has to make a choice. (to Baljeet) Baljeet, would you like some grapes, or this chocolate bar?
Baljeet: Grapes, please. (Takes it from Candace and starts eating, Candace looks shocked when he does not split)
Linda: (with disdain) That's really great, Candace. Now I gotta get back to the fridge.
Candace: I don't get it, what happened?
Baljeet: I just really wanted grapes! (walks off)
Candace: UHHHHHGGGH!
(Scene switches back to Danville Botanical Gardens)
Liam: (Puts down binoculars) No sign of him. Well, doc, it looks like it's just you and-(a plate flies over and hits him on the head, he picks it up from the ground) Ow! What the blazes?! (reads the text printed onto plate) Danville. . .Botanical . . Gardens? (both he and Doofenshmirtz look up to see Perry carrying a stack of DBG plates in his left paw, Perry holds up Major Monogram's card in his right)
Doofenshmirtz: Steven, you came back. That's right, fifteen percent off at the gift at the gift shop. Nice going, Steven!
Liam: Okay then, (pulls out a black boomerang with orange triangles, and an orange boomerang with black triangles) Theresa one and Theresa two, let's teach this platypus some manners. (Hurls both at Perry, who throws two more plates at him,which scatter both Theresas and hurtle towards Liam who only dodges them just in time. Perry gives him the "I'm watching you" sign')
Liam: Very clever. But let's see how you do against the (Pulls out seven identical boomerangs) Seven Sisters! (Perry throws more plates, knocking the boomerangs out of the air and even breaking some) Time to bring out Toni! With an I! (Taking advantage of the situation, Doofenshmirtz limps off)
(Scene cuts to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Baljeet Replicas: (All at once) He is always giving us a hard time...He says he is our friend! Would a friend steal your bike?! To be fair, he stole everyone's bike...And what about the time he drank all the water out of our fish tank?!
Isabella: Something's going on over there, the Baljeets seem to be gathering.
Phineas: Oh I don't like the looks of that! Gatherings have a bad habit of turning into mobs.
Ferb: And mobs rarely make good decisions
Buford: Oh come on, couldn't a gathering just as easily turn into shindig or a hoot-nanny?
Isabella: Under normal circumstances, I'd say yes. But this one seems to have a ...(Puts her hand on Buford's shoulder, Suspense music plays) ..."Storming of the Bastille" sort of vibe.
(Scene cuts to show that all of the Baljeet replicas have stopped chattering, and are glaring at Buford. one steps forward, flips open his laptop and the intro of Improbably knot/Buford is in Trouble starts to play)
Buford: See? They're playing music! It is a hoot-nanny!
(Song: "Buford is in Trouble")
Baljeet replicas: ♪ Decisions are much easier when made en masse ♪
♪ No one accountable, no fear of loss ♪
(All start walking towards Buford, everyone else backs away nervously as the Baljeets surround Buford)
♪ Because there's more of us, you will obey ♪
♪ You do not have a choice; do what we say!♪
♪ It's only mob mentality, you do not understand it fully ♪
♪ Put together thirty nerds and you can make a giant bully ♪
♪ Buford is in trouble now, see the sweat upon his brow, Our numbers are superior, surrender we will not allow, ♪
(The Baljeets close in on Buford and start to toss him up and down, Buford cries out in fear)
♪ Buford is in trouble now, see the sweat upon his brow, Our numbers are superior, surrender we will not allow, ♪
♪ Buford is in trouble now, see the sweat upon his brow, Our numbers are superior, surrender we will not allow, ♪
(Baljeet 2 from earlier, with the cast, runs over to the backyard gate and kicks it open, the other Baljeets carry Buford out of the backyard)
Phineas: Huh, so that's what comeuppance looks like.
(Scene changes to the fight in DBG, Perry tosses his last plate at Liam, who manages to slice it in two with one of his boomerangs. Perry dodges it and grabs it just before it returns to Liam's hand. )
Liam: (Enraged) You put her down. Platypuses can't throw boomerangs. (Perry only smiles in response, and after dramatically whirling Liam's boomerang for awhile, releases it and hits Liam in the head. Liam stumbles back from the blow and collides with a birdbath as the boomerang returns, impressively, to Perry's hand. Liam narrows his eyes at Perry and flings one of the Seven Sisters at him. Perry counters with another of the Seven Sisters, which slices through the branches above Liam, who runs from the falling boughs, only to encounter Perry again, from whom he runs in fright. Perry hurls two boomerangs at him which rip Liam's jacket in flight, causing him to lose all his boomerangs. Liam reaches for his boomerangs but realizes, too late, that he has none and slams into a tree. He ends up at the base of a tree.)
(Scene switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Buford: (Runs back into backyard) Phineas! Ferb! Ya gotta save me! (cowers behind Phineas) They've all gone crazy! (The Baljeet replicas return, marching into the backyard)
Phineas: It's the Mob Mentality! Once it gets rolling, nothing can stop it!
(Scene switches to the Flynn-Fletcher kitchen, Linda is still cleaning the fridge out)
Candace: Mom! They're back! All the Baljeets are after Buford!
Linda: What do you mean, after, Candace?
Candace: After, like they're going to get him!
Linda: (stops what she is doing) Baljeet picking on Buford? Candace, Buford outweighs Baljeet by like, 90 hamburgers!
(Scene switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard, Suspense music plays)
Buford: (While backing away from the Baljeets) Now, take it easy, buddies. This is really a bad decision!
Phineas: Let's be rational about this!
Baljeet: Okay, everyone...
All Baljeet replicas:...Get him!
(Suddenly, Natasha, the gigantic boomerang that Liam threw earlier flies into and destroys the infinite probability generator, causing all the Baljeets revert back into one. No longer intimidating, a lone Baljeet finds himself awkwardly holding Buford by his collar. Linda walks onto the scene as Baljeet sheepishly sets him down)
Linda: Okay, boys, break it up. What's going on out here?
Candace: (runs into backyard) You missed it! There were, like, 20 of 'em!
Baljeet: It is okay, Mrs Flynn-Fletcher, we were talking about how easy it is to make a bad decision. (Awkwardly dusts Buford down)
Linda; Alright, but play nice.
Phineas: Okay, Mom!
Linda: Who wants pie? (Holds pie out)
Buford: (takes it from her) Now that's a decision we can all agree on.
(Scene switches back to Danville Botanical Gardens)
Liam: (To Perry) Okay, okay, I give up! (Looks up at the sky and sees Natasha coming towards him) you've got some skills. But there's one thing you should know about my gals. They always come back!(Gets up and runs for it, Perry turns and sees Natasha coming towards him. Natasha completely destroys the tree Perry is under. Perry climbs out of the rubble unhurt but Liam swoops in for the kill)
Liam: Aha! Gotcha! (places his boot's poisonous ankle barb right above Perry's heart) My greatest hunt ever (places Perry's fedora on his own head) ends right here!
Doofenshmirtz: (Offscreen) Stop what you're doing, McCraken! Step away from the platypus! (Liam looks up)
Liam: (In disdain) Doofenshmirtz.
Doofenshmirtz: I'd like you to meet my ladies. Ruth and Esther! (The old ladies from before appear on the scene)
Liam: Ah, docents. (Esther raises a hand and points to the "Keep off the grass sign") Oh, not again! I'll be right back, (throws Perry's fedora over his shoulder, Perry gets up and dusts himself off) I know how to handle these ladies. (To the ladies) The sign must've just been installed, I've never seen it before.
Ruth: Nice try, Liam, but this is your third infraction in as many weeks! Hand over your membership card!
Liam: (taken aback) Wha-? Let's not get crazy, now...
Ruth: All your membership privileges have been revoked for ten days. Esther will escort you off the grounds. (Esther comes up with a wheelchair. Liam gets into it)
Liam: But I can't leave! It's my natural habitat!
Ruth: Your file says you're from Pittsburgh.
Liam: (suddenly speaking in an American accent) It's not my fault, it's him! It's the platypus you want! (points at Perry, Esther lets go of the wheelchair and both ladies bend down to look at Perry. The wheelchair starts to roll away)
Ruth: Oh, look how cute he is!
Liam: (Rolling offscreen) Aahhh!!
Ruth: (Admiringly) What a handsome platypus!
(Scene changes to show the Flynn-Fletcher household vents)
Monogram: There has got to be a way out of here...
Carl: Major Monogram?
Monogram: Yes, Carl?
Carl: I want you to meet my cousin Larry.
Monogram: Wait wait wait wait, you got out of the vent, found your cousin and brought him back in here?
Carl: I didn't have to find him, we had a lunch date, he was waiting for me.
Monogram: Why on earth would you bring him back into the vent?!
Carl: 'Cuz I wanted you to meet him!
Larry: Plus, I really like vents.
Monogram: Mutual, I'm sure.
(Scene switches back to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard)
Phineas: How are you feeling, buddy?
Baljeet: Oddly enough, I feel the same. But I am not worried about making choices anymore.
Isabella: Well, it's nice to have you back, Baljeet.
Buford: I agree. It's nice to have you back. One of you back.
Baljeet: Buford! Do I detect true sentiment in your voice?
Buford: You do realize I'm holding a pie here.
Baljeet: I retract my mocking tone.
(Scene switches back to Danville Botanical Gardens)
Doofenshmirtz: (Sees Perry in his fedora) Perry the Platypus! Oh, this is perfect, I want you to meet my new friend, Steven the platypus! You guys-(Looks around for "Steven" ) He's gone! I- I didn't even get a chance to say goodbye... (Perry takes off his fedora and tugs on Dr. Doof's lab coat to get his attention, Doofenshmirtz turns and notices "Steven") Steven! We were just talking about you! Hey, I'd like you to meet pe- (notices "Perry" is no longer around) Now where did he go? Oh, I really wanted you to meet him...maybe you know him! It's...not that I think platypuses all know each other or anything, (Perry shoots a look at the audience briefly before pulling Dr Doof offscreen. Doofenshmirtz keeps talking) I thought they might all run in the same crowd...

End Credits
(Song: Everything is Probable)
Baljeet: ♪Don't know which choice to choose when people ask♪
♪Not sure which task to take, or take to task♪
♪I don't know which is best, or which is bad♪
♪I'm like a question mark, or hanging chad ♪

♪Even doing nothing is still a choice like I must make♪
♪I'm paralyzed by fear that it will all become a big mistake ♪
Robots: ♪Everything is probable, nothing is impossible♪
♪Choices left to random chance are highly irresponsible♪
♪Everything is probable, nothing is impossible♪
♪Choices left to random chance are highly irresponsible♪
Baljeet: March, my little off-the-shelf 3-D package robots!



(Scene opens up with Phineas and Ferb having a conversation with Meap)
Meap: (in a hunky accent) It was good getting down around town with my main man, Phineas and Ferb.
Phineas: I think those translation sideburns are really working for you, Meap.
Meap: Rock n' roll! (takes sideburns off) Meap!
Phineas: Later, Meap!
(Ferb signs Meap off)
Isabella: Hey Phineas, what'cha doin'?
Phineas: Oh, you missed it. We were just talking with Meap in the galactic web.
("DEAL" begins flashing on the screen)
Baljeet: What is that flashing on your screen?
Phineas: Hmm...I don't know. Let's open it up, Ferb.
(Ferb opens up a window, an alien, Morg, appears on the screen)
Morg: Hi, my name is Morg. Have you ever wished that you could pop off to another planet, on the other side of the galaxy for a quick visit? Well, now you can! With Mind Share Vacations! Mmm! You and your friends can trade places, with me and my friends, for the interplanetary vacation, of a lifetime!
Phineas: That sounds like fun.
Morg: Imagine, relaxing in a hot rock by the pools, and then surrounded by beautiful newts! Or splork through the tubeworm forest, of put wishum foomf! Woohoo! Hmm! Here's how it works. Your mind comes to lodge in his head, and his mind goes to stay in yours. Only your mind makes the trip, mmm. All you have to do, is build this highly sophisticated device, and be on your way to priiiii...a mind share vacation of a lifetime!
Phineas: Ferb, I think I know what we're gonna do today.
Baljeet: It sounded like he almost said we were on our way to Perry.
Buford: Ha ha ha. Hey, where is Perry?

(Cut to Perry on his hang glider, he checks his watch, which is beeping)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P. We have intelligence that Doofenshmirtz may have taken up Square Dancing. He cannot be allowed to use one of our beloved american traditions for his evil purposes! So get out there and make sure he do-si-do...sen't do that, I guess.
(Perry chatters)

(In the backyard, the gang is setting up the Mind Share Device)
Phineas: There, finished. Well, that was easier than I thought. Let's fire this bad boy up!
(Ferb taps several buttons on the touch screen and runs over to join everyone on the Mind Share Device)
Phineas: Brace yourselves for fun, because we're going on a Mind Share Vacation!
(They close their eyes and the Mind Share Device zaps them, causing their skin tones to go pale. The screen flashes, the kids open their eyes and find themselves in Morg and his friends' bodies, only this time with their hair colors and color schemes on their outfits. They are just in a jail cell with a vacation backdrop)
Baljeet: Did it work?
Phineas: I think it did.
Buford: Hey, wait a second. (Ferb rolls the backdrop up) Where the heck are we?
Baljeet: Ohhhh, prison. We were on our way to prison.
Isabella: That's what he almost said.
(Shift to Morg and his friends, now in the bodies of the kids. The bodies are the same, except the eyes are now yellow with red slits, except for Buford's, whose are red with a grid, and their skin tones are paler)
Morg: Hmm! Our escape plan worked perfectly! We are now free to ransack this planet! Everyone, celebration noises!(Morg and his friends make various sounds; the alien in Baljeet's body makes bicycle horn noises. When everyone stops, he still makes noises. Morg turns and stares at him)
Morg: Okay, that's enough!
(Back in the prison...)
Ferb: It appears as though we've been transported into some sort of...inter-galactic hoosegow.
Buford: I was framed!
Phineas: (holding a sauce can) I'm afraid we've been duped into aiding in the escape of some rather brilliant galactic prisoners. And they did it with this little gadget --
(Phineas touches the can, a screen shoots out of the can, Morg is on the screen)
Isabella: Phineas, that's you!
Morg: That's right losers, mmm! We pulled the old switcheroo! In case you chumps have any ideas about coming back, we're setting the device on our end to self-destruct! In one hour!
Alien in Buford's body: Why are we waiting an hour to destroy it?
Alien in Baljeet's body: Have you no sense of drama?
Morg: Sayonara, suckers! Mmm!
(the screen disappears)
Buford: Ain't that the squirts.
Isabella: Well, look on the bright side! (pause) I got nothing.
Buford: Hey, guys, I just realized somethin'! I'm the only fly in a prison full of frogs and lizards!
Baljeet: Luckily I do not think anyone else has noticed.
Inmate 1: (offscreen) You're mine, flyboy!
Inmate 2: (offscreen) Fresh fly!
Inmate 3: (offscreen) We're gonna get you!
Baljeet: Well, it was nice knowing you.
Phineas: I think I figured out how we can reverse this thing. We'll be back in our own bodies in no time, barring any unforeseen— (alarm blares) What's that?
(Underhead shot of the prison cells. The bars evaporate with the prisoners stepping forward. The warden enters.)
Warden: Out of your cells, ladies! Surprise inspection! Cell number 12, don't make me come down there! Morg! What are you and your misfits up to this time? What's that? (pointing to the device in the cell)
Phineas: Oh, uh—
(The warden swipes it and crushes it before Phineas can respond)
Warden: Contraband! One more infraction outta you nerds and I will put you all in the hole for good!!! You got it?!!
(He leaves)
Isabella: The guard just took our only connection back to Earth! Now what are we gonna do?!
Phineas: I think we might be able to rebuild it, if we could just get the parts.
Buford: We need to find a guy who knows how to get things. Every prison has one.
Baljeet: How do you know what every prison ha—
Buford: Uh-uh!! Don't go there!
(Cut back to the Flynn-Fletcher household, where Candace approaches the beings that look like her brothers and their friends)
Candace: Woah-woah-woah-woah-woah! Where on earth do you think you're going?
Morg: We're going to Lotsmo to steal food.
Candace: What?! Are you pretending to be aliens or something?
Morg: Hmm, yes, pretending. Hilarity noises! (The aliens laugh and the alien in Baljeet's body honks repeatedly again) I'm not gonna tell you again! (The alien briefly stops but not before honking one last time, much to the irritation of Morg)

(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated. Perry is hang-gliding over the roof. He crashes into one of the windows. A lasso appears and grabs him. Doofenshmirtz appears from the right of the screen in cowboy attire.)
Doofenshmirtz: Gotcha! Ha-ha! I know what you're thinking. Why the snazzy getup? Why the boots? Well, ya see, I met this girl, Rosie, on a square-dancing website and I may have led her to believe that I'm...an expert square dancer. (Perry looks at him scornfully) Hey, don't give me that self-righteous look! It's the web, man! Everybody stretches the truth! You don't think that cat really eats cheeseburgers, do you? Anyway, that's why I made these boots (close-up on the boots) to help me dance. See? They have these little microphones that hear all the commands of the square dance caller and they move exactly to those commands, making me the perfect square dancer! So I really want to make a good impression. Maybe you can come along and, you know, make me look good. What do you say? Will you be my wingman? (Perry just gives Doof a look) There's my guy! Oh, yeah, and by the way, she also thinks I'm a champion bull rider, so if it comes up, you, y-, h-hey, don't look at me like that!

(Cut back to the prison. Slow zoom on a red frog looking creature in a black-striped jumpsuit.)
Red: (voiceover) There must be a guy like me in every prison in the universe. I'm the guy who knows how to get things. Dragonflies, a warm rock if that's your thing, or maybe a lilly-pad for your kid's graduation. So when Morg and his friends needed parts for a mind-swap device, (Buford and Baljeet approach the creature with a piece of paper) they came looking for me.
Buford: Psst, I understand you're a guy that knows how to get things.
(Pause. The creature suddenly grabs Buford with his tongue and attempts to chew him up.)
Baljeet: Stop it! Stop it! What is wrong with you?! Spit him out!
(The creature spits out Buford, who is covered in alien saliva.)
Red: I'm sorry. I skipped breakfast. What is it you are looking for?
Buford: (gives him the piece of paper) Here. We made a list.
Red: (taking out a pair of reading glasses) You can find everything you need in the dumpster out back of the Lotsmo on Flyway 61.
Buford: So then you can get us the stuff?
Red: No. I'm not the guy who gets things. I'm the guy who knows how to get things. You would have to tunnel out of your cell and crawl 500 yards through the prison gunge pipe just to reach the outside. That's the length of five football fields.
Buford: How d'ya know how long a football field is?
(Fade to the prison cell wall with a poster of the movie The Land I'd Like to Forget on it. Phineas lifts up the poster to reveal a large hole, which he crawls into.)
Red: (voiceover) Later that day, to make their escape, those boys crawled through 500 yards of foul-smelling nastiness I can't even imagine. (Fade on a shot of a sewer pipe. Phineas crawls out of it into the sewage. He lifts his arms up just like Tim Robbins did in the movie.) Five hundred yards. That's the length of 11 baseball banners, one tennis court, a medium-sized male elephant and a croquet wicket. (While Red is narrating, Ferb crawls out, followed by Isabella. Fade in on a shot of the gang at the dumpster holding some spare parts.) It wasn't long before they found everything that they needed.
Phineas: Great! Let's hurry up and put this thing together!
Isabella: The sooner, the better!
Baljeet: But if we do the mind swap here, those criminals will still be out of jail.
Phineas: You're right. I hadn't thought of that.
(Fade back to the sewer where Phineas and the rest crawl back into the pipe.)
Red: (voiceover) So even later that day, those boys crawled back through 500 yards of foul-smelling nastiness that I—
Baljeet: Actually, it is not as bad as you would think.
Buford: Yeah, gunge is actually quite refreshing.
Red: (voiceover) Oh. Well, it was still 500 yards. That's the length of two volleyball courts, a Nimitz-class aircraft carrier, a large three-drawer filing cabinet, three French—
Buford: (from inside the pipe) We're not listening anymore!
Red: (voiceover) Oh. Okay, then.

(Cut to the Danville Square Dance. Many Danville residents are attending dressed in western attire. Doofenshmirtz and Perry are standing at the entrance.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ooh, check it out, Perry the Platypus. There she is. That's Rosie. (cut to a woman with light red hair and freckles wearing a magenta dress holding a red Solo cup) She's from Hazel Park (whispering) by the racetrack. (out loud) Why don't you go over there and sit with the other wingmen? (cut to outside a barn where three airplane wingmen are sitting and giving thumbs up) And you can, you know, give me hand signals in case I get stuck. Right? (He approaches Rosie) Heh, hi there. I'm...I'm JohnnyRingoenshmirtz217.
Rosie: (in a southern accent) Oh, so nice to finally meet you face to face. I must say, I like a man with a strong chin.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, (chuckles) well, thank you. A lot of people focus on the, you know, the weak forehead. So you...so you care to dance?
Rosie: I would love to.
(Song: Square Dance)
Caller: ♪ Do-si-do with all your might ♪
♪ Join elbows and circle right ♪
♪ Now join hands with the lady fair ♪
♪ And promenade her around the fair ♪
Pick it up now!
♪ You're lookin' good out there ♪
♪ Now promenade your lady fair ♪
(The following dialogue happens over the song)
Rosie: Well, Johnny, I'm impressed.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, these boots were made for dancin'... (closeup on the boots) literally.

(Cut back to the prison. Phineas is holding the newly repaired communication device)
Phineas: Hello? Earth?
(Cut to outside the Flynn-Fletcher house. Candace is still standing there. The screen behind her shows Phineas.)
Phineas: Hello?
Candace: (turns around and screams) Why are you talking like my little brother, lizard boy?!
Phineas: It's me, Candace, Phineas! Outer space alien super crooks from a land of frogs and reptiles have taken over our bodies.
Candace: Okay. What do you want me to do?
Phineas: Really? You believe that weird story just like that?
Candace: Yeah, it's been a long summer, kid. What do you need?
Phineas: Well, okay. We need you to find those aliens that look like us and get them to stand on the mind share machine staging area over there.
Candace: The what?
Phineas: Y'know, that platform thing. It's the only way to get our brains back into our bodies.
Candace: Okay.
Phineas: Oh, the machine is set to self-destruct in one hour (Candace puts her hands over her mouth in disbelief) so you gotta hurry.
Candace: Right! I'm on it, Phineas! (she exits to the left side of the screen)
(Cut to Lotsmo)
Morg: (offscreen) Mmmm, quickly now! Get all that gluten on the transport vehicle!
(Candace sneaks behind the building to see where the aliens are)
Morg: (offscreen) Hmm...let's go! I've seen Argonian moon sloths that move faster!
(The aliens are carrying boxes onto a truck with the truck driver tied up with his mouth taped. They suddenly hear the square dance caller in the distance.)
Caller: (in the distance) ♪ Now join hands with the lady fair ♪
♪ And promenade her around the fair ♪
Pick it up now!
Morg: Hmm...what is that? That sound? (Their eyes literally widen) I feel compelled to obey its hypnotic quadrilateral voice commands! Hmm...must seek out source!
Candace: Where are they going now?

(Cut back to the square dance)
Rosie: You got me all tuckered out with that fancy footwork you been doin'. What should we do now?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, well, let's see. (Looks to Perry who rubs his belly) We could rub our stomachs (Perry opens his mouth and points to inside of it) and point to our mouths and later we could roll our eyes and put our head in our hands.
Rosie: I thought we could get somethin' to eat.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, that sounds good, too. I mean... Hang on, let me check. (Perry gives him a thumbs up) Let's go!
(They exit. Cut to the entrance with the aliens still hypnotized by the music.)
Morg: Oh, rhinestone encrusted oracle, command us with your quadrilateral right angle voice commands! Hmm...
Caller: ♪ Allemande with the old left hand, ♪
♪ Hand over hand and heel over heel, ♪
♪ The faster you go, the better you feel! ♪
♪ Now allemande right, tip her to and fro. ♪
♪ Duck on under, don't be slow. ♪
♪ Two more times then turn around... ♪
Candace: Of course.
Caller: ♪ Lift her up and set her down! ♪
♪ Now grab hands and-♪ AIYEE!!
(Candace bumps the caller out of frame and takes over the megaphone.)
Candace: ♪ Listen up, dweebs, and listen good! ♪
♪ You're gonna do what I say you should! ♪
♪ If you're a reptile, four by four, ♪
♪ All join hands and head for the door! ♪
That's right! Cross on through there! (She beckons for the band to follow her as she leaves the dance)
♪ Out the door and all turn west, ♪
♪ Together now, don't be a pest. ♪
♪ Wait right here for all of us; ♪
♪ We're about to board the Main Street bus. ♪
(Cut back to the prison. The cell bars evaporate once more and the warden returns.)
Warden: Out of your cells, ladies! Inspection time!
Phineas: Oh, Candace better hurry up!
(Cut back to Earth. Candace is still calling the dance with the band right behind her in the yard of the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Candace: ♪ I'm gonna get my brothers back, ♪
♪ You cosmic kleptomaniacs! ♪
♪ So get on up with a hop and a spring, ♪
♪ Climb on up on the... the... ♪
(The band stops.) Oh, what the heck did Phineas call that thing?
(Cut back to the prison)
Warden: Number 12, front and center! Number twelve!
(Cut back to the house)
Candace: Oh, what did he call it? The-the transfer stage arena? The...mind swap place? The...the, um...
(Cut back to the prison)
Phineas: Come on, Candace! Hurry!
(Cut back to the house)
Candace: Oh, I remember!
♪ Climb on up that platform thing! ♪
(The aliens do so and they swap again.)
(Cut back to the prison cell.)
Warden: What have you got to say for yourself this time, Morg?!
Morg: We were framed! Hmmm..
(Cut back to the house.)
Phineas: Candace, you did it!
Candace: That's right, and when Mom gets back you're gonna be so --
(close up on the countdown clock, which winds down and the mind share device disappears)
Phineas: And just in the nick of time!
Candace: Oh, never mind.

End Credits
(Doofenshmirtz and Rosie are seen walking down the street)
Rosie: Oh, Johnny, isn't it amazing how well we square-danced together?
(They pass by 2 Guyz N the Parque leaning on a wall. One of them presses play on a boombox and hip-hop music begins playing.)
(Song: Shake Your Body)
Singer: ♪ Shake your body like you just don't care! ♪
♪ Shake your body like you just don't care! ♪
♪ Shake your body ♪
♪ Shake your body ♪
♪ Shake your body ♪
♪ Shake your body ♪
♪ Shake shake shake shake shake shake shake shake ♪
(Doofenshmirtz unwillingly shakes his body like he just doesn't care)
Doofenshmirtz: It's the boots! I don't usually have...boogie fever! Y'know I... (stammers)
Rosie: Oh, JohnnyRingoenshmirtz! You said you only square danced! Well, I would never go out with somebody who would stretch the truth on the internet! Goodbye!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, come on, you don't think that cat really plays the piano, do you?!



(Scene opens up while panning down to the garage)
Buford: Guys, can you settle an argument for us? Preferably in my favor? If a vegetarian becomes a zombie, would they start eatin' people? (referring to Baljeet) Mr. Smartyunderpants thinks they just keep eatin' vegetables.
Baljeet: But they are, after all, vegetarians.
Phineas: I guess they eat things like heads of lettuce...uh, ears of corn!
Baljeet: Eye of potato!
Buford: Leg of carrot! (Baljeet looks up questionably) What? Your carrots don't have legs? Where do your parents shop?
Isabella: Hey, guys! What'cha doin'?
Phineas: Oh, we're just solving the world's problems.
Baljeet: Zombie vegetarianism is a world problem?
Phineas: Not yet. But recycling is. We've gotta lot of leftover material from past inventions and we're tryin' to figure out what to do with it.
Buford: My mom always just throws all the leftovers into a pot and makes a giant casserole. (to Isabella) It's best to just eat first and ask questions later.
Phineas: That's it! We'll use all our leftovers and make an invention casserole! Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! Hey, where's Perry?
Male Voice: I'm right here, guys.
Phineas: It's Internet sensation Parry Gripp!
Parry Gripp: How's it goin'?
Phineas: It's goin' well! But, actually, we were lookin' for Perry the Platypus.
Parry Gripp: Oops. (exits) Sorry for the misunderstanding.
Phineas: (to the camera) Internet sensation Parry Gripp, ladies and gentlemen! (to Ferb) So, where's our Perry?
(Cut to an interior shot of the house. Perry is by the cupboards with some red smudge on his bill. He obviously does not look good.)
Linda: (putting a burnt pie on the floor by Perry) Oh, here you go, Perry. (Perry unwillingly sinks his teeth into the pie) I burnt another one. (Shot of Linda as she takes her oven mitts off. She looks rather baggy-eyed.) I guess that's what I get for staying up all night. Unless I get my act together that means plenty more for you, Perry. (Perry gets a look of shock on his face.)
(Song: "Lady Song" (instrumental))
Lawrence Red leather yellow leather red leather yellow leather red leather yellow leather...
Linda: Lawrence, what on Earth are you doing?
Lawrence: Oh, just a few vocal exercises before my big speech for the committee of the Danville Museum. Would you like a little sneak peek?
Linda: I'd love to, honey, but I've got quite a lot of baking to do if I wanna make my quota for the Live and Let Pie event.
Advertisement: LIVE AND LET PIE!....for charity.
Linda: Why don't you practice in front of Candace?
Lawrence: Ooh, fine idea. There's nothing teenagers love more than listening to speeches.
Linda: Okay, where was I? (she smells something and opens the oven to reveal smoke) Oh, no!!! (she takes out yet another burnt pie) Well, Perry, looks like you've got yourself another... Uh, where's Perry?
Parry Gripp: (speaking from the window) Right here!
Linda: Platypus.
Parry Gripp: Oops, didn't mean to intrude. (ducks down)

(Cut to the secret lair. Agent P saunters to his chair looking droopy-eyed and a little round.)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P. (Perry chatters wearily) Guess whose birthday it is, Agent P? (cut to the monitor showing Monogram wearing a party hat) It's not Carl's. And it's not yours. Okay, okay, it's mine! (blows a noisemaker) Help yourself, Agent P. (a piece of cake with a candle on it emerges from the floor but Perry refuses it) Not a cake person, huh? Oh, well. We've noticed a surge of revenue going to Doofenshmirtz's bank account recently. Get to the bottom of it. Are we ready to sing, Carl?
(Carl enters)
Carl: I'm patching in all the agents now, sir. We couldn't afford the rights to that famous birthday song, so the agents and I came up with this. (various O.W.C.A. agents appear on the monitor in separate boxes, Carl blows a pitch pipe) A one, a two, a three.
(All the agents make different unmelodious sounds. Perry simply gets off his chair and sneaks away.)
Carl: ♪ Birth-daaaaaaaaaaay! ♪
Major Monogram: (sniff) That was just beautiful!

(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher living room. Lawrence is seen talking to Candace who is sitting on the sofa.)
Lawrence: (reading) "Thank you for coming here today to hear my speech on the history of the ancient Ornithorhynchan tribe. (At this point, Candace's eyes begin to become heavy and she tries in vain to stay awake.) The Ornithorhynchans were a platypus-worshipping society known for painting themselves teal-blue and wearing elaborate platypus-themed costumes for their various dances and rituals."
Candace: (looking at her watch) Oh, you know what? I just remembered some friends asked me to help them form a giant human pyramid and I told them that was, like, the last thing I want to do today, but it turns out I was wrong. So I-I gotta go. (leaves) The speech is great, Dad, (puts her hands on her father's shoulders) but you might want to add some visual aids. Just a little dry.
Lawrence: Hmmm, visual aids. Ah, that's how I can (rolling his r's) sprruce it up a little. Sprrrruce! Sprrrrrruce! Spuuuuuuuuh-ruce! Ha ha ha, ah, very good then.

(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, with Perry on his hang-glider.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
(Perry lets go of the hang-glider and rolls on the floor, but two mechanical hands trap him and lift him onto a doctor's chair with an optometrist's eye exam device on it.)
Doofenshmirtz: Good to see you, Perry the Platypus! But you will be lucky to see anything after y—Oop! Oh! I almost used my final zinger before I even told you my evil plan! Just put it out of your mind. Bzzt! It's gone like...like you've been zapped by a mind zap-inator....zapperinator or something. Hmmm. Anyway, you may be wondering why you're in an ophthalmologist's chair. Well, it seems that I've come into a bit of good fortuuuuune! Some technology of mine is being used to in eye examination equipment...
(Flashback to Doofenshmirtz getting his mail)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) ...and I've been getting royalty checks. The extra money is fine and all, but it really chafes my hide (shot of Doofenshmirtz observing the equipment being used) that something I invented is being used for good! (grumbles)
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: Eh, y'know what I mean? So, so I invented (takes down an inator from the ceiling) the Eye Fog-inator to temporarily blur the vision of whomever it hits. It will then force people to go out and get their eyes checked, and I'll get even more money, which I can then spend on EEEEEEEEE-VIL! So, y'know I, it kinda evens out. And you, Perry the Platypus, will be my first test subject! (He puts the equipment on Perry) Okay, put your little chin on the thing. (Takes out a cloth from his lab coat) Oh, oh, l-let me wipe that off for you. Gets so greasy. (adjusts the equipment) Okay, lift your head a bit, there-there we go. Perfect. (takes down the inator) Okay, here's my zinger: You'll be lucky to see anything after the eye fog-inat—Uch! It, y'know, it worked before when it was in context, but-but it just sounds silly now. N— (grumbles) Okay. (activates the inator) Now, now you'll feel a slight puff of air. (some gray smoke spews out of the inator) Okay, and then the blinding ray. (a red laser shoots out the device) So d-did it work? (Perry squints, point of view shot from the chair. We see a rather blurred image of Doofenshmirtz) Well, why are you giving me the stink eye? Did it work or not? (Perry simply shrugs his shoulders) Huh, uh, I guess I'll just have to try it on myself. (He aims the inator at himself) Okay, three steps back and... (the grey smoke and the red laser comes at his face) Wooooah! Woah I can see... (point of view shot from Doofenshmirtz, whose vision is just as blurry) ...that I cannot see. (waves his hand in front of his face) This... It... It works! (Perry escapes from the trap while Doofenshmirtz stammers) I can consider this a success, Perry... Perry the Platypus, where are you? (Perry attempts to kick Doofenshmirtz in the face but misses) Did you say something?

(Cut to the backyard where a lot of leftover parts are scattered all over)
Phineas: Nice work, Baljeet!
Baljeet: I found some slide rulers from my World of Calculation exhibit.
Isabella: I found some coat hangers from that Leaning Tower of Closet Space and an old college sweatshirt.
Phineas: Cool! We can hit this baby with the Megasizer and it'll make a great parachute.
Buford: I found these catering trays from the giant picnic and this parachute from the drag race.
Phineas: Cool! We can shoot that with the Microsizer and it'll make a great sweatshirt. All this stuff is gonna work out great! It's a shame Perry isn't here to see this.
Parry Gripp: Here I am. And I brought some old guitar strings to recycle.
Phineas: Wow. Th-thanks. But—
Parry Gripp: You meant Perry the Platypus, didn't you?
Phineas: Well, yeah, but your timing is perfect. We were just about to start the song.
Parry Gripp: Okay, try this on for size:
(Song "Backyard Hodge Podge")
Parry Gripp: ♪ You take a ♪
♪ Bucket full of forks and a rusted oil drum, ♪
♪ And a broken carburetor stuck together with some gum, ♪
♪ Got a motor, and a floater, and a giant can of soda, ♪
♪ Uncle's college sweatshirt, but it's got a funny odor ♪
♪ You take a little here and you put it over there, ♪
♪ You can tie it all together with some fake gorilla hair, ♪
♪ And then... ♪
♪ We've got a backyard hodge podge! ♪
Kids: ♪ It's a backyard hodge podge! ♪
Parry Gripp: ♪ It's a backyard hodge podge! ♪
Kids: ♪ It's a backyard hodge podge! ♪
Parry Gripp: ♪ Well, we've got ♪
♪ A motorized spatula, a rubberized tarantula, ♪
♪ A weird potato chip that kind of looks like Dracula, ♪
♪ A locket, and a socket, and a shiny medal sprocket, ♪
♪ A slide without a ladder, and a Saturn V rocket, ♪
♪ You'll ogle with your goggles as you weld another toggle ♪
♪ And your mind'll truly boggle when it starts to wiggle-woggle ♪
♪ Because... ♪
♪ It's a backyard hodge podge! ♪
Kids: ♪ Oo-ooh, it's a backyard hodge podge! ♪
Parry Gripp: ♪ It's a backyard hodge podge! ♪
Kids: ♪ Oo-ooh, it's a backyard hodge podge! ♪
Parry Gripp: ♪ It's a backyard hodge podge! ♪

(Cut back to D. E. I. Perry and Doofenshmirtz are in a no-win fight.)
Doofenshmirtz: I've got you now, Perry the Platypus! (They attempt to run into each other but miss; Doofenshmirtz punches a chair instead) Perry the Platypus, did you get yourself upholstered?
(Cut back to the Flynn-Fletcher backyard. Wide shot of the backyard hodge podge.)
Fireside Girls: Weeeee!
Irving: Oh, man!
Buford: Actually, this is way too tame. (to someone offscreen) Hey, crank it up to double black diamond!
(Buford and Irving scream as the giant spool they are on bounces up and down. Cut to four kids on the sweatshirt parachute)
Boy: This parachute smells funny.
(Phineas and Ferb are on a crazy bumpy slide. They go on a loop but stop at the top, but drip down with gum stuck to their bottoms.)
♪ It's a backyard hodge podge! ♪
Phineas: Nice repurposing of Buford's chewed gum collection. Woohoo! Woah-woah-woah-woah!
♪ It's a backyard hodge podge! ♪
(they slide down to the bottom)
Phineas: That sure was great! I wish Perry was here for once. He would just love it!
(Parry Gripp slides down to the bottom.)
Parry Gripp: I do love it! I've never had so much fun! Anyway, fellas, I'm gunna hit the road. See ya! (exits)
Ferb: Well, he's no platypus, but still a lovely fellow.
(Cut back to D. E. I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Y'know, maybe I should've thought before blurring my own vision. It was very short sighted. Anyway, could you make that "digga-digga-digga-digga-digga" sound for me? (Perry kicks him in the jaw) That was a lucky kick, Perry t— (Perry kicks him again, Doofenshmirtz makes angry noises) Wait, I just need to blast myself again and I'll clear my vision and get the jump on him. (On the contrary, Perry jumps him first) Hey, hey, you jumped on me! You used my own turn of phrasing against me! Wow, irony! (He walks off camera and we hear a crash. Cut to a shot of Doofenshmirtz standing next to a scattered pile of buckets) Really? A stack of buckets? That'll teach me to randomly stack buckets in the center of my lab.

(Cut back to the kitchen. Linda is still baking and burning)
Linda: Oh, another reject. Here you go, Perry. (turns around) Oh, there you are. What're you doing up there? (she sets the pie down and picks up what she thinks is Perry) Oh, it's a bag of bread. Haha! Oh, (rubs eyes) I've been up so long I'm starting to see things.
(Point of view shot from Linda. The bag of bread suddenly is wearing a top hat and dance shoes and holding a cane and does a high-kicking dance. Cut back to Linda who looks in disbelief and looks in another direction. Point of view shot at the burnt pies. One of them suddenly comes to life.)
Pie 1: ♪ Three-point-one-four-one-five-nine-two... ♪
Pies 1 & 2: ♪ Three-point-one-four-one-five-nine-two... ♪
Pies 1, 2 & 3: ♪ Three-point-one-four-one-five-nine-two... ♪
♪ Piiiiiiiiiiiiii! ♪
(Cut back to Linda, who rubs her eyes again)
Linda: Okay. That's it. (takes out her cell phone) I can't believe I'm doing what I'm about to do.
(Cut to a shot of Candace in a park who is at the bottom of the human pyramid. Her phone rings. She takes it out.)
Candace: Hello?
(Cut back to Linda)
Linda: I hate to interrupt your day but...
(Cut back to Candace)
Linda: (on phone) I need your help with these pies. I'm so tired I'm startin' to see the weirdest things.
Candace: Weird? (takes phone away from her ear) Yes! (back on phone) I'll be right home! (She comes out of the pyramid, which topples over.) Um...that was partially my fault!
(Cut back to Linda)
Linda: (yawns) Ugh, the pies aren't the only things that are burnt.
(She hears someone doing some sort of chant. She looks in the direction. The chanting is coming from Lawrence who is all dressed in teal makeup, a teal-green robe, yellow moccasins, and a beaver tail.)
Linda: (exits) I gotta get outta here!
Lawrence: (sighs) That didn't go over as well as I'd hoped. Mmmm, perhaps I need to spuh-ruce it up more! Sprrrrrruce! Sprrrrrrrrrrrrrr—Ahh! Ooh! Ow! I do believe I've sprrrrrrrained my elbow.
(Cut to exterior shot of the house. Linda walks out the door.)
Linda: Maybe some fresh air will help wake me—Huh?! (She looks at the backyard hodge podge as the song plays in the background)
♪ It's a backyard hodge podge! ♪
♪ It's a backyard hodge podge! ♪
(Cut back to D. E. I., Doofenshmirtz is holding the inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, found it! Okay, I just have to take three steps back. One..two.. (trips backwards and falls off the building as the inator activates) OWWWWWWWWWWWWW! WHY DO I KEEP STACKING BUCKETS?!?! CURSE YOU, PERRY THE PLATYPUS!!!!
(Perry is seen on top of the inator. He sticks his head in it and gets his vision back. He grabs one of the mechanical arms from the trap and destroys the inator with it.)
(Cut to shot of the fence.)
Candace: Heeheeheeheeheeheeheehee! This is gonna be epic! (She opens the gate and runs through.) Okay, Mom! (She gets zapped by the inator.) Here I am!
Linda: Candace, do you see what I'm seeing? (rubs eyes yet again)
(Close up on Candace who just stares blankly and blinks twice. Point of view shot from Candace to show that her vision is now blurry.)
Candace: I...don't...see...anything!
Linda: That's it! (exits) I'm lying down!
(Cut to outside the ophthalmologist's building. Doofenshmirtz screams and falls and eventually his leg catches the giant sunglasses sign outside the store. Balthazar, wearing glasses, walks up with his parents)
Balthazar: I can see everything so well now.
Father: Yes, whoever invented those gizmos inside that machine must be a person who is dedicated his or her life to good.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, man!
Father: Ignore the upside down man, Balthazar.
(Cut to a stage.)
Announcer: Ladies and gentlemen, our keynote speaker on the history of the Ornithorhynchan tribe, (the curtain opens to reveal Lawrence still in his makeup, but now with a sling on his arm. Applause.) Lawrence Fletcher.
Lawrence: Thank you for coming here today to hear my speech on the ancient Ornithorhynchan tribe. The Ornithorhynchans were a platypus-worshipping...
(Cut to a shot of two familiar looking men in the audience)
Jeff: Why is his arm in a sling?
Dan: That's what bothers you about this?

End credits
Linda: That nap did me a world of good! I feel so much better now.
(She looks outside and still sees the big idea.)
Linda: (putting down her piece of pie) Nnnnnno, maybe not. Back to bed.
(She walks out of the room.)
("Backyard Hodge Podge")
Parry Gripp: ♪ You take a ♪
♪ Bucket full of forks and a rusted oil drum, ♪
♪ And a broken carburetor stuck together with some gum, ♪
♪ Got a motor, and a floater, and a giant can of soda, ♪
♪ Uncle's college sweatshirt, but it's got a funny odor ♪
♪ You take a little here and you put it over there, ♪
♪ You can tie it all together with some fake gorilla hair, ♪
♪ And then... ♪
♪ We've got a backyard hodge podge! ♪
Kids: ♪ It's a backyard hodge podge! ♪
Parry Gripp: ♪ It's a backyard hodge podge! ♪



(Scene opens with a banner reading "Bee Day" and a parade balloon shaped like a bee)
(Song: Bee Song)
Man: ♪ Where's that swarm? What's that drone? ♪
♪ Something's buzzing close to home. ♪
Man and Woman: ♪ It's Bee Day, ♪
♪ And I'm feeling fine ♪
Some citizens: ♪ They look for pollen wherever they roam, ♪
♪ Then regurgitate honey in a honeycomb. ♪
♪ It's Bee Day; ♪
♪ Come on, get in line! ♪
All citizens: ♪ It's time to celebrate Bee Day! ♪
♪ They pollinate the flowers, ♪
♪ Bee Day! ♪
♪ They party in the hives. ♪
♪ Bee Day! ♪
♪ From time to time they sting us ♪
♪ And they pay for it with their lives... ♪
♪ Because it's Bee Day! ♪
(Song abruptly ends; Jimmy looks at his mom)
Jimmy: Why do we always end on that weird B flat with an F sharp bass?
Jimmy's mother: It's tradition, Jimmy. We don't question it.
Jimmy: I mean it's not even in the key.
(Phineas, Ferb, Candace, Lawrence, and Perry are in the car with Linda driving)
Linda: So, did you all have fun at the Bee Day Festival's Opening Ceremony?
Lawrence: It was bee-wildering.
Phineas: Bee-utiful.
Lawrence: Bee-dazzling.
Phineas: Bee-yond.
Lawrence: Bee-guiling.
Candace: (stops reading a magazine) Ugghh!! Just bee quiet!
Linda: Oh Candace, bee-have. (giggles) What's so important anyway?
Candace: Oh nothing, just taking the what-kind-of-teenager-are-you-quiz to unlock my true teen identity!
Linda: Well, I'll just leave that to the professionals at the magazine. (drives past an inflatable wading pool) Oh, look at that, an inflatable wading pool. Oh, it's just like the one I used to play with Candace when she was little. Remember, hon?
Candace: Mmmm-hmm!
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're going to do today... and I'll tell you after the wipe.
(the screen wipes to the backyard)
Phineas: We're making the ultimate inflatable wading pool for Mom. Hey, where's Perry?
(A door opens revealing Perry in a bee headband instead of his fedora)
♪ Agent Bee! ♪
(One of the singers clears her throat as Perry swaps his headband to his fedora)
♪ P! ♪
Major Monogram: Good morning, Agent P! We, ah, ah (sneezes) Sorry, I (coughs) My allergies are acting up. This whole Bee Day business is stirring up all the pollen in Danville. Anyway, Agent P, uh, Doof's been spotted gathering bee pheromones, which is not only disgusting but probably evil. To send you on your way, Carl actually came up with a bee-themed jetpack. It's right behind you. (a hatch opens behind Perry, holding a bee-themed jetpack) Carl! Where are those tissues?!
Carl: (hands a box of tissue) Here you go, sir.
(Perry wears the new jetpack and puts his bee headband onto his fedora)
Major Monogram: (off-screen) Single-ply, seriously?
Carl: (off-screen) We're on a budget, sir. (Perry flies away on the customized jetpack)
(At the Flynn-Fletcher house, in Candace's room)
Candace: (while talking on phone with Stacy) Okay, Stace, I'm done! Just tallying up the score.
Stacy: (in her room, talking to Candace on phone) So, how did you d- (Candace screams at the phone) Okay, wh- (Candace screams again) You done?
Candace: (from the phone) No. (screams)
Stacy: Candace, talk to me.
Candace: (from the phone) Heather Magazine says I'm... (Cut to her) an emo teen!! An emo teen, Stacy! I don't even know what that is.
Stacy: Okay, to the Internet. (starts typing on her laptop) Here we go. Emos believe everyone's against them.
Candace: How can you say that to me?
Stacy: They're highly sensitive and drama queens.
Candace: No, I'm NOT!!!
Stacy: You know, as teenage sub-cultures go, it's not so bad. You just need a new look to match your true teen identity. I'll be right over.
(Scene shifts to the backyard)
Phineas: Ferb, how's the pool inflation coming? (Ferb gives him a thumbs up)
Isabella: Hi Phineas, what'cha doin?
Phineas: Ferb and I are building a super inflatable wading pool. Wanna help?
Isabella: I'd love to, but actually, I need your help.
Phineas: Anything for you, Isabella.
Isabella: (romantically) Really?
Phineas: Sure. (passionately) Your word is my humble command. I would travel the four corners of the globe - which I have actually done - but this time, it would be for you.
(Scene changes to a beach, with Phineas rising on a rock in a white shirt and black pants with long red hair)
All for you!
Isabella: Ah...
Ginger: (offscreen) Ahem?!
(Scene changes back to reality)
Ginger: (whispers) You were lost in Phineasland again.
Isabella: (snaps out) Oh! Right. (chuckles) Right. The Fireside Girls are going for our Beekeeping patch, and we need to borrow something.
Phineas: Of course, but you're going to bring some collateral if you wannna borrow Ferb.
Isabella: Oh Phineas! (laughs)
Ginger: It's not that funny.
Isabella: Stand down, Fireside Girl.
(Perry, flying with his bee jetpack, throws his bee headband away)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, there you are Perry the Platypus - Hey, great costume, that's the bee's knees or you know, wings in this case. (A giant yellow fly swatter appears behind Perry and swats him) Ha! Swats happening, Perry the platypus. Swats up! Swats goin- (Perry punches him in the chin) Oof! Puh, hey, swats your problem? (Perry punches him again) Oh, I'm sorry, I-I can't help it, I got bees in the brain, especially the queen bee, You only hear about the queen bee this, queen bee that. You'll never hear about the King Bee, do you? That means there's a power vacuum that I need to exploit. (shows an -inator) Behold! The Aroma-nator. Like the queen bee, I have acquired mass quantities of pheromones. See? Right here in the tank. Once I spray myself, the bees will be attracted to me and I will be crowned King Bee! After that, it's just a hop, skip, and a jump to ruling the entire Tri-State Area.
(Back at Candace's room, Stacy is holding the magazine wihle Candace is in her closet)
Stacy: Okay, so the top three items on the Heather Magazine 11-step guide to be the true emo teen are dark hair, dark clothes, and pencil-thin jeans.
Candace: Ughh!
Stacy: Let's see what you got.
(Candace comes out of the closet, revealing an emo Candace)
Heeeeey, not bad!
Candace: (weakly) Whatever.
Stacy: Well, you got the look and you got the attitude. Now there's just one last test to see if you're a true emo. Do you have enough ennui to resist the urge to bust your brothers? (Candace looks out the window, seeing her brothers building the pool) I don't think your Mom would approve.
Candace: Of course not! They're gonna be soooooo bus --
Stacy: Nuh, uh, uh, true identity, Candace!
Candace: (inhales heavily and exhales lower and lower until part of her hair covers her left eye) What's the point? No one understands me anyway.
Stacy: Wow, Heather Magazine is good!
(In the backyard)
Isabella: Thanks for the loan, Phineas! We're sure to get our Beekeeping patch now.
Phineas: No problem, what are friends for, if not to reconfigure a sorbet machine that turns people into flies into a sorbet machine that turns people into bees! Just remember, the effect wears off after a couple of hours. Why don't you come back for our inflatable wading pool party after your patch ceremony?
Isabella: Of course! Wouldn't miss it!
Ginger: This is fascinating! Tell me more about bee dancing.
Baljeet: Really? Because usually, people are either gone or fall asleep by the time I get to this part of the sentence.
Phineas: Hey, Baljeet! Mind giving me a hand with these pools?
Baljeet: (looks away from Ginger) In a minute. (Turns around) So to continue, the figure eight and... (Notices Ginger has disappeared) Awwww, annnnnd we are back.
(In the kitchen, Candace walks in)
Linda: Hi, honey. Love the new look.
Candace: You obviously don't know me. Nobody does. And if somebody did, I'd just deny it.
Linda: Sweetie, I went through a similar phase when I was your age. Try writing some poems.
Candace: Whatever.
I don't care,
No one gets me...
Except my hair.
Linda: That's my girl.
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: (carrying a vacuum cleaner) Okay, time to fill the void in the power vacuum. 'Cause you see, it's a-it's a real vacuum cleaner. (Perry gives a look) No? Wow, either I'm off my game or you're just being stubborn. (Doofenshmirtz activates the vacuum and all the bees get sucked inside) Ha ha! Sucks to be you! So we're back in business! Now, lemme just shut off this baby—Oops! I almost hit the self-destruct button here! What? I-I install one on everything. It's my thing. I put one on my coffee machine, on my TV, (cut to a shot of Doofenshmirtz's toilet with a self-destruct button on it) I have one everywhere. (cut back to Doofenshmirtz) I even put one on my underwear. See? Look. (he activates his underwear's self-destruct button) Oof! Oh, that, uh...that was not pleasant.
(Cut back to the backyard, wide shot of the wading pool, then close-up on Buford, Baljeet, Phineas and Ferb at the top)
Buford: Alright, gang's all here. Let's get this pool party started!
Phineas: Sorry, Buford, I promised Isabella and the Fireside Girls that we'd wait for them.
Buford: (falsetto) "Ooh, I promised Isabella!"
Phineas: Is that how I sound?
Ferb: He really nailed you.
Baljeet: It is uncanny.
Phineas: Well, I guess we can test the pools out to make sure they're up to our usual standards.
Buford: (falsetto) "Well, I guess we can test the pools! Hey, look at me!"
Phineas: (laughs) You guys are right! It's like listening to a mirror! Alright, gang, let's give this wading pool a try.
(Song: Quirky Worky Song)
(Phineas jumps down the slide followed by the rest. Cut to Phineas in a mud pool followed by the others. They wade around in the mud, and then jump out. Cut to the gang entering a pool full of carbonated bubbles.)
Buford: Woohoo!
(Phineas laughs as he goes into the next pool and onto another slide, followed by Ferb)
Buford: (belches, giving a thumbs up) Carbonation. Makes me belch. That's why I like it.
Baljeet: (sarcastically) Yes, thank you for sharing.
(Cut to an icy pool. The gang falls down the slide onto the pool and go onto tubes on the next slide. Cut to another slide.)
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Now that the bees are out of the way, let's try this baby out. Just a little spritz. (He activates the Aroma-inator and gets more than just a little spritz.) Uh...okay...needs a little adjustments. (The doorbell rings) Oh, that's right. Charlene's coming over to get Vanessa's headphones for her. (He walks over to the door with the headphones and opens it to reveal his ex-wife.)
Charlene: Hello, Heinz.
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, Charlene. (giving her the headphones) Here ya go.
Charlene: (taking the headphones) Oh, thanks, Heinz. Wait, are you more attractive all of a sudden?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, why, thank you, I have been trying to—Oh, wait, no, it's just the pheromones.
Charlene: Wow! Well, it's really working because suddenly I can't remember why we broke up.
Doofenshmirtz: You said you hated Mr. Tomato.
(Doofenshmirtz takes out a badly made tomato puppet.)
Mr. Tomato: Hello, Charlene.
Charlene: Oh, hello, Mr. Tomato. (to her ex-husband) Thanks for the reminder. (leaves) I'm outta here.
Mr. Tomato: Y'know, it wasn't me she didn't like.
Doofenshmirtz: Shut up!
(Cut back to the backyard. Phineas slides down the last slide into a Ducky Momo wading pool.)
Phineas: Awesome!
(Buford comes down next, followed by Baljeet, and finally, Ferb.)
Baljeet: What a thrill!
(Ferb stays in the pool and wades a while.)
Baljeet: (offscreen) Man, that kid can wade!
(Zoom out to reveal emo Candace sitting by the tree writing some poetry.)
Candace: Sibling unit,
Wading, wading.
I sit here
Not relating.
Phineas: Wow, pithy.
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz and Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: Now we're cookin' with gas! Watch, Perry the Platypus, (Perry throws his fedora. It hits both the forward/reverse switch and the on/off switch) as I spritz myself right into ruining the Tri-State Area! (The Aroma-inator gives Doofenshmirtz a huge spritzing, but he then sees the escaped bees) Uh-oh. (All the bees surround Doofenshmirtz) Oh! Ow! I think it might be time for Plan Bee!! (Perry uses his tail like a chainsaw freeing himself from the swatter trap while Doofenshmirtz is still yelling.) Stop it stop it! (Perry puts his fedora back on) Ah! Ow! They're all over me! Ahhhhh!!! Get 'em off! Get 'em off!!!! (Perry runs over to the remote. He activates the Aroma-inator emptying it completely. The bees follow it.) Thank you for saving me, Perry the Platypus! And on the bright side, with all those bees, not one sting! Ow! (He spits out a bee and sticks out his swollen tongue.) Oh, man! I thould've ekthpected thith. At leatht my inator ith intact. (Perry pushes the self-destruct button on the remote control.) Ah, thhoot! Curth you, Perry the Platyputh! (beat) Curth you! I thaid, "Curth you, Perry the Platyputh!" Yeah, well, thee, you thould be able to get it in contektht.
(Cut to the pheromones, which land on the giant wading pool.)
Buford: What the heck is that?
("Flight of the Bumblebee" plays in the background while all the bees surround the giant wading pool.)
Phineas: I have no idea, but the bees sure seem to like it.
(The bees take the giant wading pool with them all the way up.)
Candace: And so continues the inevitability of my mundane existence. (The bees deflate the giant wading pool, squirting water out of it, and soaking Candace) Once again, I am humiliated by the universe.
(The Ducky Momo pool drops down along with its water.)
Buford: What just happened?
Linda: (offscreen) Hey, kids! (Cut to the sliding door where Linda comes out with a tray with a pitcher and some glasses filled with iced tea) Anyone up for some iced tea?
Phineas: Sure! Thanks, Mom! (They run up to the refreshments. Perry enters chattering.) Oh, there you are, Perry!
Linda: Oh, look, you kids found Candace's old wading pool! How sweet!
Phineas: We're gonna have a pool party! Go ahead, wade away!
(Cut to the fence gate. Isabella, Gretchen and Holly enter in their swimwear carrying towels.)
Isabella: Sorry we're late, Phineas. Our bee ceremony ran long.
Phineas: No worries, Isabella. Go ahead and join Mom in the fun.
Buford: (falsetto) "No worries, Isabella!" (makes mocking noises)
Isabella: (to Phineas) Hey, he does a good you! (to Gretchen and Holly) Come on, girls! Let's hit the pool!
(Cut to Linda taking her shoes off and dipping her feet into the pool followed by Isabella, Holly and Gretchen.)
Linda: Aw, it's just like old times.
Stacy: (coming in with the magazine) Hey, Candace, (flipping the pages) I just realized you added up your score wrong! Your true teen identity is actually the... (Shows quiz in magazine) "Busting and Crush Obsessed Older Sister Type Who Can't Do Math".
Candace: (deadpan) But, but, but, but, but...whatever.



(Scene opens up showing the Fireside Girls lodge, with the girls walking inside it)
Milly: The opening ceremony of the Bee Day festival was awesome!
(Cut to inside the lodge)
Holly: It's my favorite part of Bee Awareness Day!
Katie: My favorite part is the B-flat with the F-sharp bass at the end of the song! (They all look at her.) What? It's tradition!
Isabella: Okay, girls, festivities are over. Let's focus on getting our beekeeping patches. It's the only patch that we've ever tried to get and failed. Remember last year?
(Flashback ripples, needle scratch as Gretchen runs up)
Gretchen: (Interrupting Isabella's flashback) Eep! You promised to never flashback on that ever again.
Isabella: Right, right! You're right. (Walks outside to a yard with a bee hive in the middle.) But still, if we don't succeed today, the two strikes and you're out rule kicks in, which means this spot will stay empty on our sashes forever! (Close up on her sash showing an outlined mark, she gasps and sniffles)
Gretchen: Chill out, Isabella. We've got this. Ready, girls? (She pulls off the top of the hive)
Fireside Girls: (Gasp) They're gone!
Isabella: Gone? F-f-f-fighting flashforward to potential catastrophe! (Screen ripples, record scratches) Hey, where's Pinky?
(Scene switches to Pinky, who jumps into the purse of a mannequin. He passes Perry in a tunnel and barks.)
Admiral Acronym: Good afternoon, Agent Pinky. I see you've taken our new handbag conveyor system. (Pinky growls) Carla here has intelled that Poofenplotz has been hatching some sort of bee-related evil scheme. Carla?
Carla: Yes, it seems that Poofenplotz is researching the use of royal jelly in the bee community. (Beeping) Oh, there's your coffee.
Admiral Acronym: Isn't she a find? She comes from an entire family of unpaid interns. Anyways, see if there is anything to Carla's research, Agent Pinky. Admiral Acronym out.
(Pinky salutes and jet packs off.)

(Scene switches to the Fireside Girls' lodge.)
Isabella: (shrieks) We've gotta find those bees before the sun goes down! But how?
Gretchen: In the guideline for the beekeeping patch, it says that a good beekeeper tries to think like a bee.
Katie: Bzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz...
Gretchen: What are you doing?
Katie: I'm thinking like a bee.
Adyson: I know! We can get stung by radioactive bees and gain bee-themed superpowers!
Holly: Um, we don't have access to radioactive bees.
Ginger: (sarcastically) Yeah. That's what's wrong with that plan.
Isabella: But we do have access to Phineas and Ferb. And they have access to a sorbet machine that turned Candace into a fly. They've gotta be able to modify it to turn people into bees.
Katie: Phineas and Ferb have a sorbet machine that turns people into flies?
Isabella: Katie, for crying out loud, look it up on the internet!

(Cut to Poofenplotz's headquarters)
♪ Poofenplotz reading her junk mail. ♪
Poofenplotz: Let's see.
(Cut to inside.)
Poofenplotz: Bill, bill, flyer... (gasps and squeals) This must be my acceptance letter into L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N.! Oh! (she tears the envelope open and takes out the letter and reads it) "Dear Esmeralda Poofenplotz..." Oh, that sounds promising!
(Close up on the letter which reads:
"Dear Esmeralda Poofenplotz,

We regret to [inform] you that your application for membership has been denied. Based on your past schemes, we have deemed that you're not even close to our standard for admission.
Feel free to re-apply after you've come up with something really evil. At the very least, get yourself a decent lab coat.

Sincerely,
Heinz Doofenshmirtz".)
Poofenplotz: "We regret to inform you that..." Oh! Reject me, will they? No matter. (she crumples the paper up) My newest evil scheme is sure to catch the attention of that silly boy's club. (Close up on Pinky in his purse. He barks.) Pinky the Chihuahua! (Pinky jumps out of the purse and growls and barks at his adversary.) Fortunately, I was expecting you. (She pushes a button on a remote and a makeup case pops out of the rug trapping Pinky.) The makeup case doubles as as a trap. (She lifts it up.) Could you hand me that lipstick in there? (Pinky gives her the lipstick.) Thank you.

(Cut back to Phineas and Isabella.)
Phineas: What are friends for, if not to reconfigure a sorbet machine that turns people into flies into a sorbet machine that turns people into bees! Just remember, the effect wears off after a couple of hours. Why don't you come back for our inflatable wading pool party after your patch ceremony?
Isabella: Of course! Wouldn't miss it!
Phineas: See ya later, then!
(Cut to Ginger and Baljeet.)
Baljeet: Did you know that bees can communicate with each other through dancing?
Ginger: That's really interesting!
Baljeet: Yes. They do a tail-wagging dance to alert others(?) to a source of food. (in background) The waggle explains the angle to the destination in relations to the imaginary line from the sun to the door of the hive.
(While Baljeet is talking, Isabella takes the sorbet machine out of the box and pushes a button that turns it back into the control panel. She takes out a little green spiral notebook.)
Isabella: Okay, let's see...setting, targets... (she types in the control panel) "Fireside Girls..." And that should do it. (She presses a red button.) Here we go.
(Cut back to Baljeet and Ginger. Ginger gets zapped by the ray and transforms into a bee.)
Baljeet: (looks away from Ginger) In a minute. (Turns around) So to continue, the figure eight and... (Notices Ginger has disappeared) Awwww, annnnnd we are back.
(The ray zaps the rest of the Fireside Girls into bees. Ginger joins them. We hear a buzzing version of the Fireside Girls theme music. Closeup on the Fireside Bees.)
Isabella: Fireside Bees, follow your noses!
Fireside Bees: (sniffing) That way!
(They buzz to the right of the screen.)

(Cut back to Poofenplotz, who is applying her lipstick.)
Poofenplotz: Mmmmwah. Much better. Now that my lips are taken care of, I can tell you about my beautifully evil plan. (Pinky growls, and Poofenplotz sprays him with a water bottle.) Bad doggie! Okay, sit! (Pinky sits) That's better. Now pay attention as the camera slowly moves closer and we cross-dissolve to my thoughts.
(Cross-dissolve to a beehive.)
Poofenplotz: (voiceover) Behold, a humble beehive. A massively warded society just like our own. Observe a young grub bee fed mass quantities of royal jelly, which will make her larger and eventually she will become queen. So logic dictates that if I were to consume massive amounts of royal jelly, then I would grow four times bigger and live four times longer and eventually be crowned Queen of the World! The Queen!
(Cross dissolve to Poofenplotz in a dark but lit area wearing a crown)
Poofenplotz: And I shall not be dark, but beautiful, like the night in the day, and all shall love me and despair!
(Cross dissolve to Poofenplotz in a hive with a queen bee's rear end)
Poofenplotz: (voiceover) And I might have a grotesquely large abdomen for laying eggs, but I can live with that.
(Cut back to the present where Pinky squeals in disgust.)
Poofenplotz: Come, Pinky the Chihuahua! To the Myselfcopter! (She laughs taking Pinky with her climbing into a helicopter shaped in her own image as she flies off)

(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated. The Fireside Bees buzz over to the building)
Isabella: My bee instincts are buzzing! This must be where our bees went!
Gretchen: They must've been attracted to that heavenly scent. What is that?
(Overhead shot of Doofenshmirtz getting his vacuum cleaner walking up to the Aroma-inator.)
Doofenshmirtz: (talking under) Okay, time to fill the void in the power vacuum. 'Cause you see, it's a-it's a real vacuum cleaner.
Milly: It seems to be coming from that gigantic perfume sprayer.
Gretchen: Let's check it out!
Isabella: Woah! It looks like every bee in Danville is here! Fireside Girls, forward, buzz!
Doofenshmirtz: (He activates the vacuum and all the bees get sucked inside) Ha ha! Sucks to be you!
(The Fireside Bees all get sucked into the vacuum cleaner.)
Doofenshmirtz: ...just shut off this baby—Oops! I almost hit the...

(Cut to inside the vacuum.)
Doofenshmirtz: (from outside) ...self-destruct button here!
Isabella: Wow! Humans really take for granted not being sucked into the nearest vacuum cleaner. I'm gonna see if the queen knows anything. (She buzzes up to the queen bee) Excuse me, Your Majesty, do you have any idea how to get out?
Queen Bee: Not a clue. And without my jelly, I'm way too weak to fly. Ugh.
Isabella: Whadaya think, Fireside Girls?
Holly: What are we supposed to do now?
Gretchen: Bee Day's almost over and we're stuck inside a pharmacist's power-vac.
Isabella: What? Over? Did you say "over"? Nothing is over until we decide it is! Was it over when we helped Candace get fifty patches in one day? Heck no!
Holly: I thought it was only forty-nine.
Ginger: Forget it, she's rolling.
Isabella: And it's not over now! Cause when the going gets tough... the tough get going! Come on, girls, we've got enough patches between all of us to make this work! We can do this! Gretchen, Milly, Katie, you've got the exploring patch, right?
Milly: Yes, and we can look for a way back out of here!
Gretchen, Milly and Katie: Right!
Isabella: (picking up a piece of hair) These pieces of hair and dust are like rope! Holly, Ginger, you girls have the advanced knot-tying patch. What do you think?
Holly: We could totally work with that stuff!
Ginger: And make a sling for the queen!
Isabella: And Adyson, you and I have the appliance repair patch!
Adyson: Let's hotwire the vacuum and reverse the motor so that it blows us all out again!
Isabella: (fist bumping Adyson) That's what I'm talkin' about!
Adyson: There they are! All we need to do is swap those leads to the forward-reverse switch.
Isabella: Great! How's that sling comin'?
Gretchen, Milly and Katie: All good to go!
Isabella: Excellent work! Recon Team, is the escape path charted?
Ginger and Holly: Yes, ma'am! Power vac hose located!
Holly: Achoo! It was murder on my allergies.
Isabella: Bee-youtiful! Prepare for exit, everyone!

(Cut to outside the vacuum. Perry throws his fedora. It hits both the forward/reverse switch and the on/off switch. Cut back to inside the vacuum as the bees get blown right out. The Aroma-inator gives Doofenshmirtz a huge spritzing, but he then sees the escaped bees)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh-oh! (All the bees surround Doofenshmirtz) Ah!
Isabella: Great job, Adyson.
Adyson: Uh, thanks?
Isabella: We're going home to the Fireside Lodge! Everybody, follow me!
(Wide shot of D.E.I. as the myselfcopter flies past it.)

(Cut to the Fireside Lodge. The Fireside Bees are still leading the bees to the lodge, but suddenly, Isabella's right leg begins to grow.)
Isabella: Oh! It's wearing off! (screams)
(Holly's left hand begins to grow, followed by Katie's right ear)
Isabella: Come on! We're almost there!
(Wide shot as all the Fireside Girls grow back to their normal size and land on the ground.)
Isabella: Yay! The bees are back! Now we just need to get them back into their hives.
Milly: Okay, little bees, go back into your hive.
Holly: We don't speak their language anymore. We can't communicate.
Katie: Ooh! I have my semaphore patch! Would that work?
Adyson: Only if they were on a boat.
Ginger: Baljeet is the answer.
Isabella: Ginger, now really isn't the time t—
Ginger: No no no! He told me all about this dance they do to alert each other to a source of food or shelter.
Gretchen: Like the rhumba?
Ginger: No, it's a waggle dance!
Isabella: Dance patches we've got!
(Song: Waggle Dance)
Backup singer: ♪ (Waggle dance! Waggle dance!) ♪
Ginger: ♪ Well, I don't think I can really overstate it, ♪
♪ But bee communication is quite complicated. ♪
♪ What seems at first like a simple figure eight... ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ Is packed with meaning when their butts gyrate! ♪
Ginger: ♪ See, the waggle explains the angle ♪
♪ From the sun to the door of the hive ♪
♪ We shake it to and fro ♪
♪ To let everybody know ♪
♪ That the angle is seventy-five ♪
Gretchen: Oh, 75 degrees is the angle in relationship to the sun.
Ginger: Yeah, but it also tells the bees the distance they're gonna have to go just to get there!
Gretchen: Ooh...
Fireside Girls: ♪ It's a waggle dance, waggle dance, ♪
♪ Show them where they got to go! ♪
♪ It's a waggle dance, waggle dance, ♪
♪ Take it to the bee chateau! ♪
Ginger: Let's do it!
♪ Shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, stop! ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ Figure eight and shake it again! ♪
Ginger: ♪ Shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, stop! ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ Everybody shake your rear end! ♪
Ginger: You got it!
♪ Shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, stop! ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ Come on and swing those skirts! ♪
Ginger: ♪ Shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, stop! ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ Try to hit 'em at thirteen hertz! ♪
Ginger: That's right!
Fireside Girls: ♪ It's a waggle dance, waggle dance, ♪
♪ Show them where they got to go! ♪
♪ It's a waggle dance, waggle dance, ♪
♪ Take it to the bee chateau! ♪
Backup singer: ♪ Waggle dance! ♪

(Cut to the myselfcopter. We hear Poofenplotz laughing evilly.)
Poofenplotz: Ah, my locatificator has led me to the motherlode! The royal jelly room at the Moist Beauty Works factory! It won't be long now, Agent Pinky. Soon I'll be able to carry out my most beautifully evil plan yet! (she laughs again. Shot of a nervous Pinky from inside the makeup case. He sees a loose thread and pulls it making the bag come apart. Pinky pushes Poofenplotz making the myselfcopter crash land.) Bad doggy! Bad bad doggy! Oof! (Shot from inside the factory. Poofenplotz is flat on her face.) Ooh. That's the last time I buy a cheap designer knockoff trap from downtown. (gasps) I don't believe it! Fortune is smiling upon me like the creepy guy on the corner of 3rd and Main! (She gets up) We're in the royal jelly chamber of the Moist Beauty organic cosmetics factory! Ha ha ha! How unbelievably coincidental. No really, I mean, I couldn't have asked for a better place to crash. Anyway, you have failed, Pinky the Chihuahua, and brought me right to the biggest supply of royal jelly in the Tri-State Area! (She laughs evilly again as Pinky kicks her into the chambers, which pours royal jelly all over her) I....can't move. Well, I...I'm not much larger and I'm not really feeling royal at all. I suppose my plan was predicated on a faulty hypothesis now, wasn't it? I guess there's only one thing to say, and that's: Curse you, Pinky the Chihuahua!!
(Pinky jumps into the myselfcopter and flies out of the factory tying up Poofenplotz with it.)
Poofenplotz: Ooh, how humiliating. Piloted off to the pokey by a pooch.

(Cut back to the Fireside Lodge where Isabella is giving patches to her troop.)
Isabella: (giving one to Milly) Here's your patch and here's my patch! Yay! Time to paaaarrr-tay!

(Cut to the fence gate. Isabella, Gretchen and Holly enter in their swimwear carrying towels.)
Isabella: Sorry we're late, Phineas. Our bee ceremony ran long.
Phineas: No worries, Isabella. Go ahead and join Mom in the fun.
Isabella: Come on, girls! Let's hit the pool!
(Cut to Linda taking her shoes off and dipping her feet into the pool followed by Isabella, Holly and Gretchen.)
Linda: Aw, it's just like old times.
Phineas: Hey, Isabella, we're having iced tea! You want some, honey?
Isabella: What did you say?
Phineas: I said, "We're having iced tea! (taking out a honey bear tube and a spoon) You want some honey?"
Isabella: Oh, um, heh-heh, sure!

End Credits
Ginger: ♪ Shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, stop! ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ Figure eight and shake it again! ♪
Ginger: ♪ Shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, stop! ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ Everybody shake your rear end! ♪
Ginger: You got it!
♪ Shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, stop! ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ Come on and swing those skirts! ♪
Ginger: ♪ Shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it, stop! ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ Try to hit 'em at thirteen hertz! ♪
Ginger: That's right!
Fireside Girls: ♪ It's a waggle dance, waggle dance, ♪
♪ Show them where they got to go! ♪
♪ It's a waggle dance, waggle dance, ♪
♪ Take it to the bee chateau! ♪
Backup singer: ♪ Waggle dance! ♪



(Scene opens on a shot of the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Gretchen: (offscreen) So we all need to be...
(Cut to the backyard where Gretchen is making a presentation to Phineas, Baljeet, Ferb, and Buford with a diagram on an easel and a pointer.)
Gretchen (cont'd): ...prepared. You'll want to find a safe place and establish a defensive perimeter.
Baljeet: Like in the basement?
Gretchen: No! You never go in the basement!
Candace: What is going on here?
Gretchen: It's just our bi-monthly Zombie Apocalypse preparedness lecture.
Phineas: Yeah! You're welcome to join us. Ya might learn something.
Candace: Puh-leez, Phineas. There's nothing about zombies that I don't know.
Ferb: Did you know there's one standing behind you?
Candace: AAH!! ...Very funny.
Phineas: Ha! Good one, bro.
Isabella: Phineas, Pinky's missing!
Phineas: Aw, that's too bad, Isabella.
Buford: Chihuahuas, that's the first thing zombies go for.
Phineas: Uh, we moved past zombies, Buford.
Isabella: He's been gone all morning! He didn't even touch his breakfast burrito. What am I going to do?
Gretchen: We could put up posters.
Buford: We could do nothing.
Phineas: We could make a portable positronic canine detector using the olfactory receptors that Ferb and I were gonna use for our milligram scale purification study.
Isabella: Let's do that one!
Candace: You kids have fun. Really, I wish I could stay and bust you but I have a lunch date with Jeremy down at City Hall.
Baljeet: City Hall serves lunch?
Buford: I thought they only served subpoenas! (pause) Oh, come on! What's a guy gotta do to get a rimshot around here?!
(Baljeet groans and walks away.)
Candace: For your information, I'm going down to City Hall because Jeremy's working the Slushy Dawg concession stand at the food court there. And we're gonna have lunch...together. But don't worry, Isabella. I'm sure Pinky'll turn up. Perry always does. Speaking of which, where is Perry?
Isabella: And where's Pinky?
Buford: And where's that breakfast burrito? (Baljeet plays a rimshot on the drums.) Ah, there's my guy!
(Cut to Agent P's lair. Perry lands in his chair next to a familiar looking canine agent already seated there.)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. I believe you know Agent Pinky. (Cut to a shot of Agent Pinky, shaking, next to Agent P.) Agent Pinky informs us that Doof intends to steal the deed to the Tri-State Area from the City Hall archives. It seems he's discovered that whoever has the deed automatically becomes the ruler. It's an old law from a simpler time. You'll find that Agent Pinky is quite an asset, Agent P. He's good with computers, covert ops, and, quite frankly, he needs the hours. So get out there and stop Doofenshmirtz! Good luck, Agents P and, uh...P! (Agents P and Pinky leave) I guess you're just two "P's" in a pod. (chuckles) Carl, where's my rimshot?
Carl: (offscreen) It's right in front of you.
Major Monogram: (picks up a flyer with the words "Ba-Dum Crash" and a picture of a snare drum on it) How did you do that?!
(Cut to City Hall. Cut to inside to reveal Candace reading a directory.)
Candace: Now I am here, but the best way to the food court is...
Tour Guide: Is by taking the mandatory city hall tour!
Candace: But—
Tour Guide: Wouldn't want a bunch of uninformed people wandering around City Hall!
Candace: But—
Tourist: You can't fight it. I've been on this tour since this morning and I've been caught trying to escape twice!
Tour Guide: (strictly) No talking back there! (enthusiastically) Now, follow me to a world of bureaucratic action and adventure!
(Cut to outside the building. Perry and Pinky parachute down. Pinky gets practically buried in his own parachute when he lands. Perry pulls him from under the parachute and slams open the door and sees a very long line of people waiting. The agents approach Doof who is standing in line with a box in his hands.)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? No way! What a coincidence! (to the person behind him) Excuse me, if you and your mullet would just take one step to the... Thank you. (to Perry) Oh, look! You brought your little dog, too! How cute! Oh, FYI, I don't think they allow dogs in here. So, y'know, watch out for that. Anyway, I bet you're wondering why I'm in City Hall, right? Well, I plan to go down into the secret City Hall vault and steal the— Oh, y-you know that, right. (huffs) Right, right, of course. That's probably why you're here. To stop me, right? (opening his box) What you probably don't know is how I will get into the vault without being noticed. (takes out an inator helmet from the box) Behold! My Blend-Into-The-Background-intaor. I will be able to search the vault and steal the hidden deed, because, like they say, it's easier to find a hidden object when you're hidden as well. Right. Th-Th-Th-That's the thing. They say that. Anyway, (puts helmet on) I place the inator on my head, like so, I press this button and, now I'm here (disappears) and I'm blended in (becomes visible again) I'm here, (disappears) I'm gone! (reappears) I'm here, I'm go— Oh, my head! I hope there's no long-term damage from this, but—ugh! Anyway, I bet you think I forgot to trap you. Well, surprise! You're already trapped...by bureaucracy! You see, you don't have a number, Perry the Platypus, so by the time you and your little dog get into the archives, I will already be ruler (disappears) of the Tri-State Area!! (He laughs and exits)
(Perry slides up to the door.)
Female Bureaucrat: I'm sorry, you cannot go in there without a number, sir. (Pinky slides behind him.) Oh, please don't tell me you brought your dog!
(Cut to the backyard. Baljeet and Isabella are watching as Phineas and Ferb lower a helmet shaped like a dog's head onto Buford.)
Phineas: Behold, the Dog Sensomatic Helmet! It will amplify Buford's senses to those of a dog. (The helmet drops onto Buford's head.) So, Buford, uh, what do you smell now?
Buford: I think I can smell the future!
Phineas: It's working!
Isabella: Do you smell Pinky yet?
Buford: I smell somethin'! (sniffs) I smell... (sniffs and runs off) I smell bacon!
Baljeet and Isabella: No, Buford, wait!
Phineas: Uh-oh.
(Song: "Watchin' and Waitin'" (instrumental))
(Cut to Candace on the tour.)
Tour Guide: Now, this is a very old painting depicting John P. Tristate and Otto H. Adjacent—
Candace: Excuse me, I just need to get to the food court.
Tour Guide: Please hold all your questions to the end. Those are the rules. (Candace walks backwards) Also, please refrain from gum chewing and there are no pets allowed on the tour. Also there are no cutsies or halfsies for funsies. (Candace attempts to unhook one of the velvet ropes.) And absolutely no crossing the stanchions, please! ¡No cruzar la cuerda por favor!
(Cut to invisible Doof going to the elevator and pushing down.)
Doofenshmirtz: To the basement! (a man walks up to the buttons and attempts to press up) Aah! Quit it! Fresh! (looks at the buttons) Alright, lessee, garage, basement, catacombs, pessimistic humanoid underground dwellings...Ah! Here it is: gift shop and secret vault! (Pushes the button.)
(Cut to a shot from under the elevator to reveal laser beams turning off. The elevator goes down.)
(Cut to Isabella rubbing a bone on Buford's belly.)




Isabella: Who's a good boy?!Who's a good boy?!You're a good boy!Yes, you are!Yes, you are!


Buford: It's me, right?I'm a good boy?You mean me, right?



Baljeet: Isabella, how does this help us with Pinky?
Isabella: Easy, I've been rubbing his belly with Pinky's squeak toy. Now he's got the scent!
Buford: (pointing) He's this way! I can smell it!
Isabella: Good boy!
Buford: Yeah! I'm a good boy, right?!
Isabella: Yes, you are!
Buford: Huh? Oh! That had better not be the mailman!
Isabella: (chasing after him) No, Buford, you're s'posed to be finding Pinky!
(Cut to the City Hall vault. Doof jumps out of the elevator.)
Doofenshmirtz: What kinda elevator falls at the speed of gravity? Why did they even put an elevator there? I coulda just jumped down the shaft or... (gasps) The deed! Well, I guess it's not...not all that hidden, then, is it? Well, maybe it's just easier to find 'cause I'm hidden! Yes, I (reappears) knew that was a real saying! Come to Papa! (gasps)
(The elevator doors reopen to reveal Perry and Pinky.)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus?! Oh, and your pet dog. How did you escape the clutches of bureaucracy? (Perry holds up a piece of paper with the number "7" on it.) Oh, oh, you took a number. I guess the line wasn't as long as I thought. But you're too late! (disappears again) Once I get outside, I will own the Tri-State Area! (Pinky kicks Doof into the ground as he reappears again and a bunch of rolled up papers fall on the ground) W-Which one is it? Oh, great, now I'm confused!!
(Cut to the tour where we see two glass boxes with miniature depictions of "Ain't Got Rhythm" and "Impress My Professor")
Tour Guide: And over here are the spontaneous musical number dioramas.
Candace: The huh?
Tour Guide: Ooh, Danville is known for its spontaneous musical numbers. For instance...
(Song: "The History of the Tri-State Area")
♪ A lot of people know that the Tri-State Area ♪
♪ Used to be a Bi-State Area with an Adjacent Area over there; ♪
♪ What people don't know is that originally it was three distinct ♪
♪ Single-State Areas, but people don't care. ♪
♪ The founders of the Area were independent thinkers, ♪
♪ Completely unaffected by bureaucratic hurdles ♪
♪ And that's why the Capitol building was moved here from Sri Lanka ♪
♪ On the backs of seven giant sea turtles. ♪
♪ It's the history of an area, the Tri-State Area, ♪
♪ Formed mostly from adobe and seaweed; ♪
♪ If you've heard it different elsewhere, that's historical hysteria, ♪
♪ So stop believing everything you read! ♪
♪ Over here's a diorama of the first diorama ♪
♪ Of Vincent Diorama, who lived right here! ♪
♪ When I say "right here", I mean in this very room, ♪
♪ 'Til we moved him to a studio apartment last year. ♪
♪ It's the history of an area, the Tri-State Area, ♪
♪ Don't mean to cause a ruckus or a fuss; ♪
♪ It's the birthplace of the onion and the Danville cafeteria, ♪
♪ And home of Bigfoot's hairless cousin, us! ♪
♪ It's the history of an area, the Tri-State Area, ♪
♪ Where planet Venus holds some office space; ♪
♪ Try to think of someplace better, well I double-dog-dare ya, ♪
♪ But if you can't, then get out of my face! ♪
♪ It's the ♪
Tour Guide and male tour patrons: ♪ History of the Tri-State Area! ♪
Background singer: ♪ History of the ♪
Background singer, Candace, and female tour patrons: ♪ Tri-State Area! ♪
Background singer: ♪ Area! ♪
Tour Guide: And now, step this way for the history of the history of accounting.
(All tour patrons groan.)
(Cut back to the vault where Perry, Pinky and Doof are searching among the papers for the deed.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, lessee, the Declaration of Independence, the Magna Carta, the Deed to the Tri-State Are—I mean the Mayflower Compact? Ha ha! (goes in the elevator with the "Mayflower Compact" and disappears) Goodbye, Perry the Platypus!
(Perry takes out his grappling hook and he and Pinky go up with the elevator.)
(Cut to a City Hall door. Pan down to reveal a doggy door.)
Buford: Oh! Oh! In here! Follow Buford!
(Buford goes through the doggy door)
Phineas: Hey, guys, he went here!
Isabella: I think Buford found him!
Baljeet: Really? A doggy door in a municipal building that does not allow dogs?
(Cut to Perry on a balcony watching Doof. He presses a button and a gate comes down on a door.)
Doofenshmirtz: What the?! Who did that?
Isabella: This way, everyone!
(Pan down to reveal Pinky standing near a statue in the middle of the room. Perry looks left and right. Zoom in on the Blend-into-the-Background-inator. Perry takes out his grappling hook and swings.)
Doofenshmirtz: Lessee, how do you get outta here, now? (Perry swipes the inator off of Doof.) Hey!
(The gang follows Buford as he continues to sniff.)
Buford: Huh? Another dog! Dis way! (He jumps forward)
Isabella: Oh, I hope it's Pinky!
(Perry drops on Pinky and activates the inator. Buford looks around and sniffs the inator.)
Buford: Right here! Right here, he—What? (takes off his helmet) He should be right here! Oh, man!
Phineas: I don't get it. Well, maybe the helmet needs to be fine-tuned.
Buford: (puts helmet on the floor) Yeah, you guys do that. I'm gonna go get a Slushy Dawg.
(Cut to a computer with the text "COMPUTER LOCK OVERRIDE:" being typed onto it.)
Doofenshmirtz: R-I-D-E, colon. (The text "PASSWORD: _______________" appears) Password? Oh, good! I'm r-really good at passwords! Okay, lessee...Uh, how about, uh, "Reindeer flotilla", ah, and send. (The gate raises.) Ha ha! Yes! Now, I'll just take this deed outside and I'll be the ruler of the— (Perry drops down) Perry the Platypus?! (Pinky walks up to him) And your little dog, too?! You're both persistent, I'll give ya that, but the security system is offline and there's nothing you or your little dog friend can do about it! Y'know, unless, one of you happens to be really good with computers.
Major Monogram's Voice: Agent Pinky is good with computers...good with computers...good with computers...
(Perry whistles and Pinky looks at the computer and gives a thumbs up. He takes the computer down from the pedestal and whacks Doof on the head with it. Doof lets go of the deed and Perry grabs it.)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow! That guy is really good with computers!
(Cut back to the tour)
Tour Guide: Now who's ready to see the whole tour again?
All but Candace: Run!!!
(Everyone runs away except Candace.)
Candace: Actually, the song part was nice.
Tour Guide: Oh, ya like the song, do ya? Well... (As he's about to sing again, Pinky, back in mindless animal mode, walks up to Candace) Hey! Hold it! Is that a dog?!
Candace: Hey, it's Pinky! (picks him up)
Tour Guide: I'm sorry, no dogs allowed! This tour is officially over!
Isabella: (running up to Candace) Candace! Candace, you found him! Thank you! (Candace gives Pinky to Isabella) You said he'd turn up and he did!
(Perry walks up)
Candace: Oh, there you are, Perry!
Phineas: Way to go, Candace! (picks up Perry) C'mon, you two wandering pets! Who wants a breakfast burrito?
Buford: I do!
Candace: Exactly how long have you worked here at City Hall?
Tour Guide: Oh, I don't work here. I was sent by Yarnak to help uninformed citizens in need! Now, if you'll excuse me, I am needed elsewhere! Whoosh! (he runs off)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace! Where were you?
Candace: I'm sorry I missed lunch, Jeremy, but this weird guy made me go on a tour.
Jeremy: That's Don. He's, uh, kind of a fixture around here.
(Don reappears running wearing the dog helmet and carrying the deed.)
Don: I'm the ruler of the Tri-State Area!
(Cut to a shot of the rimshot flyer as a real rimshot is heard in the background.)

End Credits
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, great, now I'm confused!
Don: ♪ It's the history of an area, the Tri-State Area, ♪
♪ Don't mean to cause a ruckus or a fuss; ♪
♪ It's the birthplace of the onion and the Danville cafeteria, ♪
♪ And home of Bigfoot's hairless cousin, us! ♪
♪ It's the history of an area, the Tri-State Area, ♪
♪ Where planet Venus holds some office space; ♪
♪ Try to think of someplace better, well I double-dog-dare ya, ♪
♪ But if you can't, then get out of my face! ♪
♪ It's the ♪
Don and male tour patrons: ♪ History of the Tri-State Area! ♪
Background singer: ♪ History of the ♪
Background singer, Candace, and female tour patrons: ♪ Tri-State Area! ♪
Background singer: ♪ Area! ♪



Part I
Announcer: From the PFT Studios in still moderately charming and majestic downtown Danville, it's—
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, yeah, we know the drill. We've hosted before. (pointing to Major Monogram) He's good, I'm evil, blah blah blah.
Major Monogram: I, for one, am excited to be here.
Doofenshmirtz: I'm all tingly! I've actually got butterflies in my sto—
Announcer: Let me finish my introduction! Welcome to Phineas and Ferb's Musical Cliptastic Countdown Hosted by...Kelly Osbourne! (Timpani drum plays as Doof and Monogram get questionable looks on their faces.) And now, here's our host: She's a singer, an actor, a fashionista du jour, Kelly Osbourne!
(Massive applause. Pan on the audience, which includes Millie and Holly. A live-action Kelly appears on the stage next to Doof and Monogram.)
Kelly Osbourne: Hi, everybody! What'cha doin'? I have always wanted to say that. I am so excited to be here. I promise you guys, this is gonna be a rockin' show full of surprises. And anyone who knows anything about me, they know that I absolutely LOVE Phineas and Ferb! And being a singer myself, I love love LOVE the songs.
Doofenshmirtz: Wai-wai-wai-, w-what's goin' on here?! We are the hosts!
Major Monogram: Yeah, and, uh, aren't you a little too three-dimensional to host an animated show, young lady?
Kelly Osbourne: Yes. Yes, I am. But I'm doing it anyway, so just deal with it.
Doofenshmirtz: But w-we have hosting contracts and everything!
Kelly Osbourne: Did you read your contract?
Doofenshmirtz: Nobody reads them, they're like a hundred pages long and pages 2 through 99 are useless, like, like parsley on a dinner plate. Nobody eats it. Y'know, if they're gonna put stuff on your plate that y-you're not gonna eat, why not make it something useful, like a-like a keychain or, or gold doubloons.
Kelly Osbourne: Dude, why are you rambling on about parsley? You're bringing the entire energy of the show down! Maybe you guys can be my co-hosts!
Doofenshmirtz: Co-hosts? I don't like the sound of that. Sounds like a demotion.
Kelly Osbourne: Enough of you two. (to the audience) You guys ready? Let's get this party started! (applause) There were so many songs to pick from, I mean, just take a look at all of them.
(She points to the screen behind her, which shows practically all of the songs that have been on the show.)
Major Monogram: Wow, that is a lot of songs.
Kelly Osbourne: You guys voted and now we're gonna rock the top 10! Here's number 10!
(Song #10: Candace Party)
Guy: Is this the Phineas and Ferb party?
Guy #2: Sure is.
Guy: Phineas and Ferb parties rule! (all cheering)
Candace: It's not their party, it's my party! And it's not a party, it's an intimate get together. (Shattering) (Gasps) What was that? Put that down, pardon me, use a napkin! What's my science teacher doing here?
Teacher: I never miss a Phineas and Ferb party!
Candace: First of all, it's not a party, but if it were a party, it would not be their party, it would be MY PARTY!
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ It's not a party, it's an intimate get together! ♪
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ Don't call it that, it's just a get together! ♪
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ Don't spill your drink ♪
♪ Don't drop your food ♪
♪ Don't make the music in the house go boom ♪
♪ Hey, don't use my mom's good scissors ♪
♪ And please stay out of my room! ♪
♪ Take your feet off the chair ♪
♪ No running in the house ♪
♪ Put a coaster under that drink ♪
♪ Hey, these tchotchkes aren't for juggling ♪
♪ And that's a toilet, not a sink! ♪
Candace: ♪ It's not a party, it's an intimate get together ♪
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ Don't call it that, it's just a get together ♪
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
(the phone rings)
Phineas: Hi, Mom! What? WHAT?! I'm sorry, I can't hear you over Candace's intimate get together!
Jeremy: ♪ Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ Hey, what's this in this fishbowl? ♪
♪ I said don't play with the remote! ♪
♪ Hey close the door, were you born in a barn? ♪
♪ Which one of you brought this goat? ♪
Candace: ♪ It's not a party, it's an intimate get together! ♪
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ Don't call it that, it's just a get together! ♪
Party members: ♪ Candace party! Candace party! ♪
Candace: ♪ We're talking I to the N to the T-I-M-A-T-E get together! ♪
Party members: ♪ Whaaaat? ♪
Candace: ♪ I to the N to the T-I-M-A-T-E get together! ♪
Party members: ♪ That's right! ♪
Candace: It's not a party...
(Kelly waves and blows a kiss to the camera.)
Doofenshmirtz: (groans) Demoted to co-host.
Kelly Osbourne: I've been a co-host before and I had a blast doing it!
Doofenshmirtz: Well, goody gumdrops for you!
Major Monogram: Don't worry, Kelly. I am totally down for being second banana.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, first of all, that's a little sad. But, second of all, technically, you would be third banana. It would go: Kelly, and then me, and then you. And, ih, I would be second banana.
Kelly Osbourne: Nobody is a banana, because there are no bananas!
Major Monogram: Yes, we have no bananas!
Kelly Osbourne: Here's the song rolling in at number 9!
(Song #9: Come Home Perry)
Phineas: Excellent. From the top of this building, everyone in the Tri-State Area should be able to hear us.
(Ferb starts playing the guitar)
Phineas: ♪ Perry, you know you are a boy's best friend ♪
♪ You're more than just a passing trend ♪
♪ You're like a treat from a candy store ♪
♪ Oh, Perry, we love you more than ice cream cakes ♪
♪ We love you more than bugs and snakes ♪
♪ We love you more than all things mentioned before ♪
♪ Oh, Perry, you're extraordinary ♪
♪ You're kinda short and hairy ♪
♪ The color of a blueberry ♪
Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella: ♪ Yes, Perry ♪
All: ♪ So come home, Perry ♪
♪ Come home, Perry, come home ♪
(Candace arrives)
Phineas: Hey, Candace, why don't you sing one?
Candace: Um... ♪ Oh, Perry, I think its kinda scary ♪
♪ I can't find you any where-y ♪
♪ It fills me with despair-y? ♪
♪ Oh, Perry, I'm allergic to dairy ♪
♪ I'm gonna move to the prairie, ♪
♪ And change my name to Larry ♪
Phineas: Larry?
Candace: I ran out of rhymes, all right?
Crowd: ♪ She'll change her name to Larry! ♪
♪ Larry! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Larry! ♪
All: ♪ So, come home, Perry, ♪
♪ Come home, Perry, come home ♪
♪ So, come home, Perry ♪
♪ Come home, Perry, come home ♪
♪ Come home, Perry, come home ♪
(Perry chatters)
Candace: Oh, there you are, Perry.
Phineas: Perry!
(Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Baljeet and the Fireside Girls hug Perry)
Buford: (Comes and takes Candace's microphone) Good job, Larry.
Candace: Welcome home.
Kelly Osbourne: This is going to be a fantastic countdown! Um, just one thing, guys. We seriously have to do something about your...fashion. It's just not working.
Major Monogram: Uh, really?
Kelly Osbourne: You look a bit, like, stiff and-and uniformy. Right, guys?
Major Monogram: Uniformy? Is that even a word?
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, "uniformy." If you look it up, there's a picture of you.
Kelly Osbourne: You're one to talk.
Doofenshmirtz: What?
Kelly Osbourne: I mean that whole laboratory look was was never in, I mean, even if you are an "evil scientist". You should try a cape.
Doofenshmirtz: A cape? Where am I gonna get a cape at this hour?
Major Monogram: You could try a Nehru jacket.
Kelly Osbourne: Well, go and get changed then.
Doofenshmirtz: (leaving with Monogram) If I could get a Nehru jacket, I could get a cape.
Kelly Osbourne: (shakes head) Men. While my co-hosts go backstage and bring their fashions into this century, here's song 8.
(Song #8: I'm Me)
(The Pizzazzium Infinionite tube bounces into a warehouse inside the mall where Vanessa follows it. She and Ferb constantly chase the Pizzazium and she finally ends up with it.)
Vanessa: ♪ I can do it, I can run, I can hunt you down ♪
♪ You can try but you can't stop me 'cause I'm gainin' ground ♪
♪ I'm light on my feet and I'm quick to the punch ♪
♪ I had a heavy breakfast but a real light lunch ♪
♪ I'm a raging bonfire, a cherry bomb, I'm me ♪
♪ I'm rough-and-tumble, I'm the one to beat, ♪
♪ I'm a fresh coat of blacktop burnin' at your feet ♪
♪ I've got a poisonous sting, when I rain I pour ♪
♪ I'm the best of the best, I'm the soup du jour ♪
♪ I'm smooth as glass and sharp as a tack, I'm me ♪
♪ I'm the last and best stick of gum in the pack, I'm me ♪
♪ I'm a strong woman, fast-talkin', big bad dog-walkin', ♪
♪ Hifalutin', drum-beatin', foot-stompin', corn-poppin', ♪
♪ Speedy locomotive that just won't stop! ♪
♪ I'm a hot apple pie with a cherry on top! ♪
♪ I'm a crowd-pleasin', head-spinnin', ♪
♪ Winnin' in the ninth inning, ♪,
♪ Whip-lashin', record-smashin', ♪
♪ Black-tie party-crashin' ♪
♪ Cyclone of fun, I'm an army of one! ♪
♪ I'm strawberry sprinkles on a hot cross bun! ♪
♪ I'm a big haymaker in a title fight ♪
♪ I'm a cute black kitten with a nasty bite ♪
♪ I'm an action double-feature on a Friday night! ♪
♪ I'm me! ♪
♪ I'm me! ♪
♪ I'm me! ♪
♪ I'm me! ♪
♪ I'm me! ♪
Kelly Osbourne: Okay, let's keep rocking and get rol—
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Wa-wa-wait!
Major Monogram: Yeah, hold the boat.
(Doof and Monogram come back onstage dressed up like Kelly, right down to her purple hair.)
Doofenshmirtz: Mind you, this does not mean in any way, shape, or hair color, that I am your co-host. I-I'm just sayin'.
Kelly Osbourne: Wow! Now I know what I would look like if I had middle-aged male clones.
Major Monogram: Oh, I can't believe I let myself get talked into this. It's embarrassing and, if I'm being honest, a bit drafty.
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, just go with it, Francis. (to Kelly) Hey, l-look at this! Strike a pose! Look, look, look, I'm vo—
Kelly Osbourne: Vogueing?! I love vogueing! It's so '90's!
Major Monogram: I was a bit of a secret voguer myself.
Kelly Osbourne: Really?
Doofenshmirtz: It wasn't a secret.
Kelly Osbounre: You know what we should do then? Strike a pose.
(The crowd goes wild while Osbourne, Doof and Monogram vogue it out.)
Doofenshmirtz: Vogue. Vogueing. That's it. Look it up, kids. That's what the internet is for.
Major Monogram: That was fun! Great idea, Kelly.
Kelly Osbourne: Thank you.
Doofenshmirtz: But, but, vogueing was my idea! I started to say "vogueing" and you just cut me off right before when I just got "vo" out. Y'know, I— (to Monogram) What did you think I was gonna say? Vociferous? What other words start with "vo"?
Major Monogram: Give it a rest, Heinz. (to Kelly) He's always like this.
Doofenshmirtz: That's it! That is it! You will rue the day that you demoted Heinz Doofenshmirtz to co-host! (he leaves)
Kelly Osbourne: Hmm. You know what that means?
Major Monogram: I think I do.
Kelly Osbourne: (singsongy) More hosting for us!
Major Monogram: All right! Here's a little ditty I like to call "Song Number 7"!
(Song #7: A-G-L-E-T)
(Crowd cheering)
Phineas: ♪ Through the eye of the needle ♪
♪ Time to loosen your tongue ♪
♪ Got a tip how to make ends meet ♪
All: ♪ A-G-L-E-T ♪
♪ Don't forget it ♪
Phineas: ♪ Get's us all up on our feet, yeah, yeah, yeah ♪
All: ♪ A-G-L-E-T ♪
♪ (Aglet!) Don't forget it (X6) ♪
Phineas: ♪ We're gonna tie the world together (X4) ♪
♪ One word at a time! ♪
(Guitar)
Phineas: (On P.A) Ladies and Gentlemen, my sister, Candace Flynn!
Candace: ♪ And in the end of most important thing ♪
♪ Is that we never forget ♪
♪ The end of a shoelace is called the... ♪
The... uh... Wait a minute! It doesn't matter! I can't believe I was almost sucked into this!
Kelly Osbourne: Are you guys having as much fun as I am? (crowd cheers)
Major Monogram: Yes! Now that I'm back in my old clothes, uniformy or not. I predict the Nehru jacket will make a comeback.
Kelly Osbourne: Mmm. Not gonna happen.
Major Monogram: Oh.
Kelly Osbourne: But you know what is gonna happen? Song number 6!
(Song #6: City of Love)
Isabella: So Phineas, what do you think of the City of Love?
Phineas: I wish it was the City of Airplane Parts.
Isabella: Oh, you're just too stressed. You should take a moment to relax and enjoy it.
♪ We could share a crêpe sucrée ♪
♪ At this Parisian café ♪
Phineas: Huh. That awning could be used as a sail. Or, you know, a parachute. Depending on how things go.
Isabella: ♪ Take a break and smell these flowers ♪
♪ Underneath the Eiffel Tower ♪
Phineas: I wonder if they still have pieces of that hanging around? The rivets would come in handy.
Isabella: Oh, Phineas...
♪ Won't you share a crème brûlée with me? ♪
Phineas: Hey, look at that nifty little blow torch!
Isabella: ♪ How perfect could this be ♪
♪ In the City of Love? ♪
Couples: ♪ (In the City of Love) ♪
Isabella: ♪ In the City of Love ♪
Ferb: ♪ (In the City of Love) ♪
Isabella: ♪ We could try some fancy cheese ♪
♪ Or peruse the galleries ♪
Phineas: I wonder if oil-based paint is combustible...as a rocket fuel.
Isabella: ♪ Isn't this a perfect day? ♪
♪ How do I look in this beret? ♪
Phineas: Oh, that reminds me, we might need helmets!
Isabella: ♪ Oh, how can he not feel the same way ♪
♪ When we're strolling down the Champs-Élysées ♪
♪ In the City of Love? ♪
Lady: ♪ (In the City of Love) ♪
Couples: ♪ In the City of Love ♪
Isabella: ♪ I wish that he would whisper "ma chérie, je t'aime" ♪
♪ But all he wants to do is try to fix that plane ♪
♪ In the City of Love ♪
Artist: ♪ (In the City of Love) ♪
Isabella: ♪ In the City of Love (in the City of Love) ♪
♪ In the City of Love.... (in the City of Love) ♪
(The mime passes by and lets go of a balloon)
Vendor: Hey you! Stop letting my balloons go!

Part II
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, little Miss Osbourne, (coming back onstage with an inator helmet on his head and a remote) prepare to say hello to your doom (Agent P appears on one of the rafters above the soundstage.) at the hands of—or, I guess in this case, in the head of—the man who is not your co-host! (Perry holds onto a rope with one hand and holds a mirror in the other.)
(Doof pushes the button. Kelly ducks. Perry swings from the rope and the ray hits the mirror and zaps Doof making him disappear.)
Kelly Osbourne: Wow. That was close.
(Cut to the Baby alien's dimension. Doof appears in the crib.)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait. Was that Perry the Platypus? Great. They're probably letting him host the show.
(Cut back to the studio. Perry drops down and lands onto the stage.)
♪ Perry! ♪
Kelly Osbourne: Everyone welcome Perry! (massive applause) Oh my gosh, this day just keeps getting better and better! You know, I was hoping you'd stop by. Do you...Do you want to introduce the next song?
(Perry chatters)
Kelly Osbourne: Let me translate for you guys. What I believe he just said was, "Swinging in at number 5 is..."
(Song #5: Summer (Where Do We Begin?))
Phineas (2nd Dimension): Summer... It sounds dangerous, yet oddly compelling. What is it?
Phineas: What is summer? Man, where do I begin?
Phineas: ♪ The days are longer, The nights are shorter, The sun is shining ♪
Ferb: ♪ It's noticeably warmer ♪
Phineas: ♪ Summer, every single moment is worth its weight in gold ♪
♪ Summer, it's like the world's best story and it's waiting to be told ♪
♪ It's ice cream cones and cherry soda dripping down your chin ♪
♪ It's summer, man, where do we begin? ♪
♪ Summer is ponds and pools and garden hoses, tryin' to beat the heat ♪
♪ Summer, bicycles and roller skates and even just bare feet ♪
♪ It's also... Surfing tidal waves, creating nanobots ♪
♪ Or locating Frankenstein's brain ♪
♪ Finding a dodo bird, painting a continent ♪
♪ Or driving our sister in... ♪
Oh, wait. Maybe we're going too fast.
(2nd Dimension Phineas and 2nd Dimension Ferb are seen shivering)
♪ Summer, it's crickets and cicadas and a glass of lemonade ♪
♪ Summer, it's sitting with your brother in the backyard under the shade of a big tree ♪
♪ That's what it means to me. ♪
♪ The days are longer ♪
Both Phineas': ♪ The nights are shorter ♪
♪ The sun is shining. ♪
Ferb (2nd Dimension): ♪ It's noticeably warmer ♪
Phineas: ♪ Summer, every single moment is worth its weight in gold ♪
♪ Summer, it's like the world's best story and it's waiting to be told ♪
♪ It's ice cream cones and cherry soda dripping down your chin ♪
♪ It's summer, man, where do we begin? ♪
♪ It's summer, man, where do we begin? ♪
♪ It's summer, man, where do we begin? ♪
Kelly Osbourne: That last song just makes me wanna move and groove, but enough about me. Because I have a surprise for everyone. (applause) A friend of mine wanted to stop by and say hi, so please, put your hands together and give a warm welcome to Maia Mitchell!
(A live-action Maia appears and waves and hugs Kelly.)
Maia Mitchell: Hi! I was watching from backstage and I could not wait to get out here! I love all the songs so far!
Kelly Osbourne: I know, right? Aren't they fun?
Maia Mitchell: Yeah, they're amazing! And, Kelly, you are doing an awesome job of hosting. Isn't she? (encourages applause) No, no, you're great! And, Major Monogram, I'm Maia. (shakes Monogram's hand)
Major Monogram: Pleasure to meet you, young lady.
Maia Mitchell: And Perry! I love you! You're my favorite, actually, because, we have something in common.
Kelly Osbourne: What's that?
Maia Mitchell: We're both from Australia.
Kelly Osbourne: (gasp) Didn't even think of that. That's so cool!
(Perry smiles and waves the Australian flag.)
Maia Mitchell: That is so cool. (giggles)
Kelly Osbourne: Maia, why don't you introduce the next song?
Maia Mitchell: I was actually waiting for you to ask me to do that.
Kelly Osbourne: Yes!
Maia Mitchell: Check it out! It's number 4!
(Song #4: Brand New Best Friend)
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Do I know you?
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, I'm you from another dimension.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Well that would explain the handsomeness.
Doofenshmirtz: Right back atcha, big guy.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Does that mean you and I are exactly alike?
Doofenshmirtz: I suppose so.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪ Do you want some rice pudding? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Blech, no, that's gross!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪ It was a test. Almond brittle? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Ooh, I love it the most! ♪
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Me too!
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Do you collect coins? ♪
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪ Yeah, just in case ♪
♪ Vending machines become the ♪
Both: ♪ Dominant race! ♪
♪ I've been alone all these years ♪
♪With my irrational fears ♪
Doofenshmirtz: But not the vending machine thing. That's gonna happen.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪ But now before me I see ♪
Both: ♪ Someone with whom I agree ♪
♪ I've found a brand new best friend and it's me ♪
♪ I've found a brand new best friend and it's me ♪
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪ Hmm, I thought I'd be taller ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I've been told I slouch ♪
♪ I thought I've have both my eyes, y'know... ♪
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): It's in this pouch.
Doofenshmirtz: Ouch!
Doofenshmirtz: You know, I can't help but notice that your scar goes over your eyepatch.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Yeah...
Doofenshmirtz: ...Nothing...
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Do llamas weird you out? ♪
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): ♪ Yeah, are they camels or sheep? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: No, no, I meant Lorenzo.
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Oh, that's right.
Both: ♪ He played Meap! ♪
♪ Now I know all about you ♪
♪ And you know all about me ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Ooh-wee-ooh ♪
Both: ♪ And now before me I see ♪
♪ Someone with whom I agree ♪
♪ I've found a brand new best friend and it's me ♪
♪ I've found a brand new best friend and it's me ♪
♪ Now that I've found you ♪
♪ We can be a duo ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ That's right. ♪
Both: ♪ Twice the evil ♪
♪ Double Doofenshmirtz ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Coming at you Fridays! ♪
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): What's that, are we doing a TV show together?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh no. It just sort of sounded like that. Well, I mean, we could. We should!
Doofenshmirtz (2nd Dimension): Hmm, maybe we're not so much alike
Doofenshmirtz: That can be your catchphrase! You're the grumpy one. (Pokes him) Eh?
Maia Mitchell: There are so many great songs!
Kelly Osbourne: I know! What did you think about that last song, Perry?
(Perry chatters and gives a thumbs up)
Maia Mitchell: I have a...I have a confession.
Kelly Osbourne: What's that?
Maia Mitchell: I might, uh, make Perry noises when no one's looking.
Kelly Osbourne: (gasps) You're kidding! Me, too!
Maia Mitchell: You do?
Kelly Osbourne: All the time!
Major Monogram: Make that three!
Carl: Sir, I just wanted to check to see if you— (freaks out) MAIA MITCHELL!!! I'm your biggest fan! Love your voice and your work!
Maia Mitchell: Thank you so much. You're really sweet.
Kelly Osbourne: Hey, you know what? I've got an idea. Why don't we all make Perry noises together?
Maia Mitchell: Yeah!
Kelly Osbourne: You ready?
Maia Mitchell: Yeah.
Kelly Osbourne: (to Monogram) You ready? (Monogram cracks his knuckles) Okay.
(Kelly begins, followed by Maia and then Monogram and Carl.)
Kelly Osbourne: (laughs) Nobody does it better than Perry.
(Perry chatters pointing to his bill.)
Maia Mitchell: I'll never get tired of that.
Kelly Osbourne: Me neither.
Maia Mitchell: Well, sadly, I have to go.
Kelly Osbourne: No! Really?
Maia Mitchell: Yeah, but thank you so much for having me.
Kelly Osbourne: Thank you so much for stopping by!
Maia Mitchell: (hugging Kelly) Of course, my pleasure. Heh!
Kelly Osbourne: Maia Mitchell, everyone!
Maia Mitchell: (waves) Bye!
Carl: Hey, I'll walk you out!
(Carl and Maia exit.)
Major Monogram: (chuckles) Looks like someone's got a schoolboy crush.
(laughter)
Kelly Osbourne: You think? Anyway, let's get back to the countdown. Here's number 3.
(Song #3: There's a Platypus Controlling Me)
Doofenshmirtz: (Chuckles while sweating) Who's up for charades?
(Perry beckons Doofenshmirtz from under the table)
Perry the Platypus, what are you doing down here?
(When he reemerges, he is wearing the Devolition-ator helmet, and making a beat with the records glued to his fingers. Perry is controlling him underneath the DJ table)
Vanessa: Dad?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, hi, Vanessa.
Vanessa: Dad, what are you doing?
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Well, I'll be honest, I don't really understand ♪
♪ But I fell down this hill now I got glue on my hands ♪
♪ And I got records on my fingers ♪
Teens: ♪ Whaaat? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Records on my fingers ♪
♪ I got records on my fingers and I just can't stop ♪
Teens: ♪ Don't stop ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I can't stop, I got a platypus controlling me ♪
Teens: ♪ Whaaat? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I got a platypus controlling me ♪
♪ Now let me sum it up ♪
♪ It was a strange set of circumstances ♪
Teens: ♪ Strange set of circumstances ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I fell down the hill, I got glue on my hands, ♪
♪ Now I got records on my fingers and I just can't stop ♪
Teens: ♪ Don't stop! Don't stop! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Well I would if I was able ♪
♪ There's a platypus controlling me, he's underneath the table ♪
Teens: ♪ There's a platypus controlling him- Whaaat? ♪
Teen: Oh I get it, platypus is a metaphor for whatever's keeping you down!
Teens: ♪ Like corporations are a platypus ♪
♪ The government's a platypus ♪
♪ Your teacher is a platypus ♪
Weird Teen: My teacher is a panda
Teens: ♪ Society's a platypus ♪
♪ My parents are a platypus ♪
♪ The media's a platypus ♪
♪ It's all just propaganda ♪
♪ Yeah we all got a platypus controlling us ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Just me ♪
Teens: ♪ We all got a platypus controlling us ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I'd stop if I was able ♪
Teens: ♪ We all got a platypus controlling us ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I'm not speaking metaphorically ♪
♪ the platypus controlling me is underneath the table ♪
Wait! Oh wait, no, he's gone! Hey!
♪ There's no platypus controlling me ♪
♪ There's no platypus controlling me! ♪
Johnny: (At Vanessa) Your dad's kinda cool.
Vanessa: You're my punk-rock boyfriend! You're not supposed to think my dad is cool! (She walks over to Doofenshmirtz) It only matters that I think he's cool. (Kisses him on the cheek)
Doofenshmirtz: She thinks I'm cool!
(The crowd cheers)
Kelly Osbourne: You know what'd be really cool? To write a song so next year the song can be on the countdown!
Major Monogram: Well, as a fellow musician, I heartily agree.
Kelly Osbourne: Oh, you're a musician?
Major Monogram: Well, yes. From, uh, from time to time, I like to strum the (speaks the Hawaiian pronunciation) ukulele.
(Doof suddenly reappears.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah!
(Crowd exclaims)
Doofenshmirtz: Uhhhh, did I miss Maia Mitchell?
Kelly Osbourne: I'm afraid so.
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, bummer. Anyway, as a musician, not as a co-host, mind you, I'd like to get in on this little songwriting thing you're about to do.
Kelly Osbourne: What do you play?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, several things, by my instrument of choice is the kazoo.
Kelly Osbourne: You rock the kaz?
Doofenshmirtz: I do.
Kelly Osbourne: Fine! Let's start with the lyrics then. Maybe we can do some sort of a round robin kinda thing and write a line, and the next person can rhyme it.
Major Monogram: Oh, good idea. Ahem. Me first, me first. Uh, let's see. "When I wake up in the morning sun..."
Kelly Osbourne: "I realize you're the only one."
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, now it's me. ♪ "And by the moon that's, oh, so silver." ♪
Kelly Osbourne: Dude, really?
Doofenshmirtz: What? What?
Kelly Osbourne: There's no rhyme for the word "silver".
Major Monogram: She's right.
Doofenshmirtz: No, no, look...eh...uh..."Bilver" and, and, and there's (Kelly scoffs) What, what?
Kelly Osbourne: What is a bilver?
Doofenshmirtz: It's a...water moving thingy.
Major Monogram: I believe what you're thinking of is a bilge pump.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh. I've always called it a bilver. Okay, how about this? ♪ "And by the moon that's oh, so, orange." ♪
Major Monogram: Oy.
Doofenshmirtz: Is that better?
(Kelly rolls her eyes.)
Kelly Osbourne: See how I just rolled my eyes? Please roll clip number 2!
(Song #2: Summer Belongs to You)
Phineas: ♪ It's been a long, long day ♪
♪ And there were moments when I doubted ♪
Isabella: ♪ That we'd ever reach the point ♪
♪ Where we could laugh and sing about it ♪
Phineas & Isabella: ♪ Now the sun has set on this, ♪
♪ Another extraordinary day ♪
♪ And when it comes around again ♪
♪ You know I'll say ♪
♪ Tell me what you wanna do today ♪
♪ All we need is a place to start ♪
♪ If we have heart, we'll make it ♪
♪ 'Cause we're not messin' around (we're not messin' around) ♪
♪ Yes we can dream it, do it, build it, make it ♪
♪ I know we can really take it ♪
♪ To the limit before the sun goes down ♪
Phineas: ♪ As soon as you wake up you gotta make your move ♪
Isabella: ♪ Don't miss the beat, just get into the groove ♪
Phineas & Isabella: ♪ The sun is shinin', there's a lot that you can do (a lot that you can do) ♪
♪ There's a world of possibilities outside your door ♪
♪ Why settle for a little, you can get much more ♪
♪ Don't need an invitation, every day is new ♪
♪ Yes, it's true ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (Summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (Summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to everyone, so have some fun ♪
♪ There's nothing better to do ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you ♪
Candace: All right, I'm taking a verse.
Phineas: Be my guest!
Candace: ♪ I traveled halfway 'round the world ♪
♪ And almost turned and ran away ♪
♪ But you helped me get my courage back ♪
♪ So now I've got to say ♪
♪ That though I've often thought of you ♪
♪ As just a nuisance and a bother ♪
♪ Today I can't imagine ♪
♪ Having better little brothers ♪
♪ And you gotta believe in something ♪
♪ So today I believed in you ♪
♪ And you came through, we made it ♪
♪ I've never been so proud ♪
Phineas: ♪ (never been so proud) ♪
Candace: ♪ I know at first it seemed implausible ♪
♪ But we accomplished the impossible ♪
♪ Now there's something that I've got to say out loud ♪
♪ Time is what you make of it, so take a chance ♪
Phineas: That's it!
Candace: ♪ Life is full of music so you ought to dance ♪
Phineas: She's got it!
Candace: ♪ The world's a stage and it is time for your debut ♪
Phineas: By Jove, I think she's got it!
Candace: ♪ Don't waste a minute sitting on that chair ♪
Phineas: Yeah!
Candace: ♪ The world is callin' so, just get out there ♪
Phineas: That's what I'm talking about!
Candace: ♪ You can see forever so your dreams are all in view ♪
Phineas: ♪ Yes it's true ♪
Phineas, Isabella & Candace: ♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to everyone, so have some fun ♪
♪ There's nothing better to do ♪
Phineas & Isabella: ♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to boys and girls all around the world ♪
♪ We wouldn't say it if it wasn't true ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
(In the middle of the song)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace!
Candace: Jeremy! You came back early!
Jeremy: Well, I missed my girlfriend.
Candace: Oooh! I like the sound of that!
Jeremy: Besides you forgot something in France.
Candace: I did? What?
Jeremy: This.
(Jeremy kisses Candace)
Ferb: ♪ Baby, baby, baby, baby ♪
Phineas & Isabella: ♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Whatever you want to do, you make the rules ♪
♪ You got the tools to see it through ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you (summer belongs to you) ♪
♪ Just remember that you can do it and when you're through it ♪
♪ Will change your point of view ♪
♪ Summer belongs to you! ♪
(Scene shows clips from "Rollercoaster", "The Fast and the Phineas", "Lawn Gnome Beach Party of Terror", "Unfair Science Fair Redux (Another Story)", "Flop Starz", "Mom's Birthday", and "The Baljeatles")

Part III
Kelly Osbourne: Right, guys, before we roll our last clip, I have to know something. Do you have a favorite song on the countdown?
Major Monogram: Well, I'm, uh, I'm particularly partial to number three.
Doofenshmirtz: And I like number seven, that's my lucky number. (The background starts to ripple.) It all started when I was seven years old, back in Drusselstein—
Kelly Osbourne: W-W-Wait a minute. You're doing a flashback.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, yeah, it's kinda my thing. I do a lot of these (stammers)
Kelly Osbourne: Um, we can't fit that in.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, what if I make it short?
Kelly Osbourne: We still don't have time because...it's the moment we've all been waiting for!!! And I can't believe this, but you all picked my favorite song as the number one song! You guys have fabulous taste, I'm just saying. You guys ready? It's... Everything's Better with Perry!!!
(Song #1: Everything's Better with Perry)
(Phineas's alarm clock rings 7:00 and a mechanical arm emerges out of it and pokes a sleeping Perry awake, he chatters, waking Phineas and Ferb)
Phineas: Good morning, Perry! Now that's the way to wake up. (He hugs Perry) This is gonna be the best day ever.
(The boys get dressed and ready for the day)
♪ We consider every day a plus ♪
♪ To spend it with a platypus ♪
♪ We're always so ecstatic ♪
♪ 'Cause he's semi aquatic ♪
♪ Our Ornithorhynchus anatinus ♪
♪ Brings smiles to the both of us ♪
♪ Life's never fuddie duddy ♪
♪ With our web-footed buddy ♪
♪ When we're brushing our teeth, it's better ♪
♪ Tying our shoes, (Oh yeah!) it's better ♪
♪ Combing our hair, it's better ♪
♪ Like we're a cheese sandwich and he's the cheddar ♪
♪ Blinking our eyes, it's better ♪
♪ Breathing in and out, (So much better!) it's better♪
♪ Sitting in a chair, it's better ♪
♪ And taking a bath, just a little bit wetter ♪
♪ Every day is such a dream ♪
♪ When you start it with a monotreme ♪
♪ He's duck-billed and he's beaver tailed and hairy ♪
♪ (You know that he's hairy) ♪
♪ Everything's better with Perry ♪
♪ (Everything's better with Perry) ♪
♪ Everything's better with Perry ♪
♪ (Everything's better with Perry) ♪
♪ Everything is better with Perry ♪
♪ (Everything is better) ♪
♪ (Everything's better with Perry) ♪
♪ (Everything is better with Perry) ♪
♪ Everything's better and we ♪
♪ Just want to tell you Perry ♪
♪ Everything's better with you ♪
♪ (Better with you) ♪
(Phineas, Ferb, and Perry slide down the staircase railing and land in a pile on the floor, Perry chatters)
Kelly Osbourne: Well, this has been the most amazing day! And to quote my favorites, Phineas and Ferb, "The best day ever!"
Major Monogram: I completely concur.
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, okay, I've been reconsidering and I'm going to give in. I'm totally gonna be your co-host.
Kelly Osbourne: That's great. But—
Doofenshmirtz: So what are my co-hosting duties? What's next on the old co-hosting train I jumped aboard? What do I do?
Kelly Osbourne: Say goodbye, Dr. D.
Doofenshmirtz: That's it? Goodbye, Dr. D!
Major Monogram: Goodbye.
Kelly Osbourne: Thank you so much, everybody, that was so much fun! I'm gonna be singing these songs all day! See ya next time!
(Kelly, Doofenshmirtz and Monogram wave goodbye. The credits roll over a montage of clips from all the songs shown.)



(Open up on the backyard. Isabella, Buford, Baljeet, Perry, Phineas, and Ferb are looking at what looks like a mountain of some sort.)
Phineas: Okay, gang. Today, we're gonna tie a legendary knot.
Buford: Woah woah woah! We're just startin'?! No—no intro, nothin'?! Just gettin' right into it?
Phineas: Yep, we're just doin' the knot.
Buford: Wait, how can we do something not?
Phineas: No, it's "knot" spelled with a "k".
Buford: I didn't think it was spelled with a "k".
Phineas: No. It's "knot".....spelled with a "k".
Buford: I don't understand your pauses.
Phineas: Well, lemme start over. Today, we're gonna reproduce the Gordian Knot.
Buford: Well, why didn't you say so in the first place?
Isabella: I've heard of that, but I can't remember the story.
Buford: I got this. Back in the day where men wore miniskirts...wiggle wiggle wiggle...wiggle wiggle wiggle...
(Flashback. In this flashback, the role of Alexander the Great will be played by Buford van Stomm.)
Buford: (voiceover) ...Alexander the Great was vacationing in Gordium, when he came upon a celebrated oxcart that was tied to a post using a knot that was so complicated, it was impossible to untie. So he just sliced it in half in one bold stroke.
(End flashback)
Buford: A simple solution to a complicated problem, hence the phrase, "Cutting the Gordian Knot."
Isabella: I've never heard that phrase!
Baljeet: That is new to me.
Buford: Trust me, it's a thing.
Phineas: So, we'll tie these ropes around our waists, and follow this blueprint to recreate it, then it's up to us to figure out how to get loose. That'll make us the second people to tie the Gordian Knot, but the first people to untie it!
Baljeet: What if we cannot untie it?
Phineas: (tying his rope around his waist) No problem. Our mom was always really good with knots. There was this one time when Candace—
(record scratch)
Candace: (leaning against the door) Hey! I thought we weren't going to bring up the clothesline incident ever again!
Phineas: Oh, right. Anyway, would you mind getting Mom if we get stuck in the ginormous Gordian Knot we're making?
Candace: When it gets big and weird, I'll go get Mom.
Phineas: Excellent! Does everyone have their ropes tied? Alright, lessee, Isabella and Buford, make two loops where you're standing. Great! You're good to start climbing. Baljeet, turn twice counterclockwise and then dive in five loops from the bottom. Then Ferb and I will do this and this and this, and we'll join you inside.
Ferb: Shall we?
Phineas: Absolutely. Let's go, bro! Baljeet and Ferb, twist to the right and wiggle towards the top. Hey, where's Perry?

(Cut to Perry somewhere around the house. He puts on his fedora and expects something to happen. Nothing happens. So he shrugs and gets a shovel labeled "Analog Lair Entrance". He begins digging down to his lair. Cut to the lair. Some dirt falls from above into Agent P's chair and Agent P follows.)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P! Seems that Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been hitting every all-you-can-eat buffet in town, which can't be good! If anything were to happen to Doofenshmirtz, we would have to make some drastic cuts over here! (looking aside) Especially in the non-essential personnel department. (Perry starts to vacuum all the dirt off the chair.) Good luck, Agent P. Oh, don't worry about the mess, uh, Carl will take care of it.
Carl: (off screen) I guess that makes me essential, huh?!
Major Monogram: Don't get cocky, Carl.

(Cut back to the Flynn-Fletcher house. The doorbell is heard ringing.)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace.
(Cut to the front door. Candace answered the door and Jeremy is in his Mr. Slushy Dawg uniform carrying a safe.)
Candace: Hi, Jeremy. What a nice surprise! (sees the safe) Ooh, what's that?
Jeremy: Oh, it's an old mini safe of mine that I found in the back of my closet. I've had it for ages, but I haven't used it in so long that I forgot the combination. I thought your brothers could open it. I figured that's a "safe" bet. Heh heh!
Candace: So what's in it?
Jeremy: That's the thing. I don't remember.
Candace: Maybe it's a rare baseball card.
Jeremy: No, I sold all those a long time ago.
Candace: Um, could it be your favorite toy car from when you were a kid?
Jeremy: No, I traded that for this safe.
Candace: Well, maybe it's something cute, like your baby teeth.
Jeremy: Nope. Definitely not. I still got those. (He lifts his upper lip to reveal his baby teeth stuck in his gums.)
Candace: Ew. I mean, cute!
Jeremy: Yeah, the Tooth Fairy never visited me when I was a kid. (pause) Anyway...could you give this to your brothers? I gotta rush to work.
Candace: (takes the safe) Sure. I'll give it to them as soon as they finish their Ferbian Knot. Don't ask.
Jeremy: (leaves) See ya later, alligator!
Candace: In a while, crocodile!
(Stacy comes to the door.)
Stacy: You guys have got to work on your pet names for each other. So what's in the safe?
Candace: I dunno. But it's not baby teeth.
(Cut to backyard where the mountain is now in the shape of a sphere.)
(Song: "Quirky Worky Song" (Jazz Waltz Version))
Phineas: (off screen) Okay, everybody. Two twists to the left and we should all see daylight.
Isabella: (coming out of the knot) Well, I just earned my Overcoming Claustrophobia Patch!
Buford: Ugh! Daylight! Ha ha!
Baljeet: Now what?
Phineas: Now we burrow back in and untie ourselves.
Buford: You gotta be kiddin' me! Who looked at this idea and said, "Yeah, that'd be fun"?! Y'see?! This is what happens when we have no intro!
Baljeet: I have been making mental notes of the paths and probabilities as I have gone along. It will be a piece of cake.
(Ferb gives a thumbs up.)
Isabella: If I just walk backwards, it should work.
Buford: To heck with this game! I'm just gonna chill here for a while. (gets pulled into the knot) Hey!!! Who's pullin' on my rope?!

(Cut to Perry walking into a restaurant called Jerry's All You Can Eat. He kicks open the door.)
Doofenshmirtz: Over here, Perry the Platypus. (Cut to Doofenshmirtz at a table with a Dagwood sandwich on it and a high chair sitting next to him.) I'm just having a little lunch. Why don't you pull up a chair and join me? (He sits in the chair and, of course, gets trapped.) Whadaya think? Pretty clever, right? It's my new high chair trap! I thought of a high chair cuz you're just a little guy. Arencha? Yes you are you're just a lil' guy. (Perry chatters angrily.) Hey, you're not getting outta this so why don't you enjoy the food. (Doofenshmritz force feeds Perry part of the sandwich.) It's All-You-Can-Eat, you know. (stops) Uh, ih, you're good? (Perry nods.) You're already full, right? Me, too. I barely touched my plate. That's how these all-you-can-eat places make their money. They charge you like you're gonna eat a week's worth, but then, when you fill up after, like, two plates, they-they've really made a profit. That's why I'm opening up my own All-You-Can-Eat Drusselsteinian buffet! (Shows him a video on a smartphone) Look. I've already made a commercial for it.
(Song: "Kronk for Hire" (instrumental))
(Cut to the ad)
Doofenshmirtz: All You Can Eat Drusselsteinian Buffet! It's food the way your mother never made! We've got Hassenfloffer Entrail Waterzooi, with Gopher Gut Au Gratin! Fuzzy Fungus Flugelbrotchen! And an assortment of tripe-based desserts! And those brave enough can try our new Mystery Lump! Remember, "Doof" spelled backwards is "fooD"!
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz at the buffet.)
Doofenshmirtz: Y'know, come to think of it, it really should be called "the All You Can Stand", because Drusselsteinian food is terrible! That's the beauty of it. Nobody will be able to finish even one plate's worth! My profit margin will be HUGE! But, first, I've got to eliminate the competition, with this, (Takes out an inator) the Eat-It-All-Inator! You see, it gives people a huge appetite and everyone will eat so much that all of these All You Can Eat places will go out of busineeessssss! Then my restaurant will be packed! (Maniacal laughter) Maniacal laughter!

(Cut to Candace's bedroom where she and Stacy are pondering over the safe)
Candace: Whadaya suppose it is?
Stacy: It's probably some dumb boy stuff like firecrackers or turtle shells.
Candace: Or maybe it's his secret inner thoughts written as a sonnet. No, no, no, no, that's not it! I gotta think more like my brothers. Y'know, use my imagination.
Stacy: This could be dangerous.
Candace: Maybe it's a secret spy plan. Or a glass eye! Or Abraham Lincoln's beard!

(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz and Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: Now, just watch what happens when I zap those people over there. (Perry jumps in his high chair causing Doofenshmirtz to fire off his inator. The ray bounces off a sneeze guard, off a lamp and hits Doofenshmirtz.) Huh? What happened? How could I miss? Oh, I'm so hungry all of a sudden! (He munches his way through the Dagwood sandwich on his plate finishing it whole.) Oh, that was great! I...I can cut out the middleman and do all the eating myself! (gets up) I'm going down for seconds. (He digs into the entire buffet. The man who was about to get his helping opens up a bag of chips. Cut to Doofenshmirtz eating other people's plates.)
Man: How can you eat like that and stay so thin?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, I built an All-You-Can-Eat-inator that speeds up your metabolism so you don't gain any weight no matter how much you eat ever.
Man: You should mass produce that machine! Everyone would buy one! Well, you'd be a millionaire!
Doofenshmirtz: Pfft, don't worry about me making money, mister! I've-I've got a complicated plan. I—Like I'm gonna take advice from some guy in a diner.
(Perry bounces in his high chair out of the diner.)

(Cut back to the backyard.)
(Song: "Gordian Knot")
Phineas: ♪ There's a legend I've heard, or so it's been taught, ♪
Baljeet: ♪ 'Bout Alexander the Great ♪
Buford: ♪ And the Gordian Knot. ♪
Phineas: ♪ Looked it up on the 'Net so that we could recreate it, ♪
♪ Now the knot we have here is quite complicated. ♪
Isabella: ♪ It's got closed bends, loop splices, bowlines and lashings. ♪
Phineas: ♪ Maybe we can loosen it with just a little thrashing. ♪
Kids: ♪ Square knots, sheepshanks and all kinds of hitches. ♪
Phineas: ♪ When it comes to constraint, there's an embarrassment of riches. ♪
Kids: ♪ It's already a knot, so ready or not ♪
♪ We're gonna try to untie it, though it's terribly taut; ♪
♪ So it won't be for naught, we'll give it all that we've got ♪
♪ To untie the un-untieable knot. ♪
Candace: ♪ We don't know what it is, but we know what it's not: ♪
♪ It's not a Gutenberg press or a coffee pot. ♪
♪ It's not a car or a tractor 'cause the safe's too small ♪
♪ And a fish or a piano wouldn't make sense at all. ♪
Kids: ♪ It's already a knot, so ready or not ♪
♪ We're gonna try to untie it, though it's terribly taut; ♪
♪ So it won't be for naught, we'll give it all that we've got ♪
♪ To untie the un-untieable knot. ♪
♪ To untie the un-untieable knot. ♪
♪ To untie the un-untieable... ♪
Candace: Not...even close! (leaves) That's it, I'm gettin' the boys.

(Cut to an alleyway where we follow the bouncing platypus. Balthazar approaches him on his pogo stick. They bounce and look at each other. They then bounce away.)
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah ♪
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah ♪
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah ♪
♪ Perry! ♪

(Cut back to the backyard. The gang is outside of the knot.)
Phineas: Looks like we all just got a few more moves to get untied. Except for Buford, who's managed to tie himself into a knot.
Buford: I'm a victim o' circumstance.
Candace: PHINEAS AND FERB, YOU GOTTA OPEN THIS SAFE AND TELL ME WHAT'S INSIDE!!! IT'S DRIVIN' ME CRAZY!!!!!!!
Phineas: Sure. We'd love to. As soon as we finish untying the Gordian Knot.
Candace: Alright, it's big and weird. MA!!!
(Cut to Linda in the kitchen getting a pie out of the oven.)
Linda: In a minute, Candace!

(Cut to outside Moe's All You Can Eat. Perry bounces his way in.)
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah doo ♪
(Cut to inside. Doofenshmirtz is stuffing his face.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha! You're too late, Perry the Platypus! Buffet number two is history! I am starting to feel a little full though. Hmm, I thought it would last more than a few minutes. Better give myself a little boost. (Zaps himself) That's more like it! Wow, I am so hungry, I could eat everything at Buffet Number Three, baby! Yeah! (Perry bounces) Oh, give up, Perry the Platypus, those chairs are— (Perry throws himself and the chair at Doofenshmirtz. He falls over backwards as the chair smashes into pieces. The inator falls down and disappears.) Huh? Oh, man, I swallowed my inator. Oh, well, at least you can't destroy it now, because it's inside my stomach. So, today, I win! (Perry punches Doofenshmirtz's stomach and the inator zaps from inside his mouth. Doofenshmirtz feels his stomach.) Okay, you broke it. I can feel all the little pieces just rumbling around in there.

(Cut back to the backyard. The inator zaps Candace.)
Candace: I'm starving! What's that sweet smell?
Phineas: Probably licorice. We used it to make the ropes as a failsafe in case Mom wasn't around.
Candace: Perfect! (She drops the safe and runs into the knot.)
(Song: "Let's Go Digital" (instrumental, sped up))
(Cut to inside the knot where Candace stuffs her face of all the licorice like there's no tomorrow.)
Phineas: Wow, I never knew Candace was such a licorice fan. (Candace still munches on the licorice. Ferb gets out an umbrella and opens it.) Hey, thanks.
Buford: I am so in love with her right now.
Baljeet: What?
Buford: Nothin'.
Ferb: That's a solution to the Gordian Knot even Alexander the Great couldn't come up with.
(Candace finishes swallowing all of the knot. Linda walks into the backyard.)
Linda: Alright, Candace, what am I looking at?
Candace: I ate it! It was the size of the house and I ate it!
Linda: You ate it?
Candace: I know, I don't believe it either!
Linda: (looking at the safe) Well, what is that?
Candace: It's a safe. I can't open it.
Buford: Gimme that thing! I got an opener that can open anything! (He hits himself on the head with the safe, which opens.) ¡Para usted, señorita!
Candace: (takes out what was in the safe) A pencil?! This is what I've been obsessed with all day, a pencil?!!
Jeremy: Oh, I remember that! In grade school, a pretty girl loaned me that pencil and I've kept it ever since.
Candace: A pretty girl? (angrily) Who was she?
Jeremy: Candace, that pretty girl was you. See, those are your teeth marks.
Linda: Okay, Candace. You can eat the rest of that pencil. Unless you'd like to join us all for some chocolate triple layer cake.
All but Candace: Yay!
Candace: Ugh! Ohhhhhhh...
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry!
Jeremy: Hey, my baby teeth just fell out!
Buford: (giving the safe) Why don't you put 'em in here?
Candace: Ew. I mean cute!

End Credits
Seen when broadcasted by itself.
(Song: "Gordian Knot")'
Candace: ♪ It's not a car or a tractor 'cause the safe's too small ♪
♪ And a fish or a piano wouldn't make sense at all. ♪
Kids: ♪ It's already a knot, so ready or not ♪
♪ We're gonna try to untie it, though it's terribly taut; ♪
♪ So it won't be for naught, we'll give it all that we've got ♪
♪ To untie the un-untieable knot. ♪
♪ To untie the un-untieable knot. ♪
♪ To untie the un-untieable... ♪
Candace: Not...even close!



(Scene opens up showing the Flynn-Fletcher house. Backyard. Phineas introducing Baljeet and Buford into his and Ferb's today Big Idea, showing a picture in a board)
♪ Na, na, na, na, na ♪
Phineas: So this rock climbing wall will be big! And, best of all, it'll be built of all-natural, an 100% organic, free-range yard trimmings!
Baljeet: So is it only rock climbing wall?
Phineas: No, it's not only rock climbing wall. It's free-range organic rock climbing wall!
Baljeet: I can see how that would be relevant if we are going to eat it. We are not going to have to eat it, are we?!
Phineas: I guess if we had to we could...
(Buford enters the picture and closes Baljeet's mouth)
Buford: Did I hear we're building something we can eat?
(Baljeet gets Buford's hand out his mouth)
Baljeet: You know, for the record, I would like to not be in a position today, where I have to eat this wall.
Phineas: We'll see what we can do, but we're not making any promises.
(In the kitchen Linda sits in a chair near to table where Lawrence washes the dishes. Linda's carrying a paper list in a hand and carefully watching to it. Candace enters the kitchen)
Candace: Mom, have you seen my other white skirt? (Looks at the list) What are those charts?
Linda: Hon, the rare and elusive, bent-bill knot-hatch is in it's nest building season. The birds will be done traveling North, and should be right here in town today!
Candace: Snores-ville.
Lawrence: No dear, the bird took a left at Snores-ville, and is up here in Danville. Can I get up high? (Candace high-fives Lawrence)
Linda: Woo! Okay, more specifically, it should be right in our backyard at exactly four today! Isn't that exciting!?
Candace: Wait wait wait wait wait! So you and a bunch of trained observers are going to be in our yard at exactly four in the P.M. today?
Linda: Well, yes.
Candace: Love it! The Booby-hatched trash-nut whatever it is, is my new favorite bird! This is awesome, see you guys later.
Linda: (To Lawrence) See? She thinks it's fun.
Lawrence: Oh, yes and I'm British, and so you think I'm supposed to like bird watching. (Imitating a British accent) Oh, I'm British, so I'll in the conservatory with tea and a crumpet. I'm saying that ironically but actually that sounds quite good. So I'm going to do that. Ta.
Candace: (outside in the backyard) Oh yeah. Yeah. This looks good. So how long 'till you're done with this contraption? Think you'll still be out here at four?
Phineas: I don't know. I guess so.
Isabella: (sadly) Hi Phineas. Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Hey Isabella, rock climbing wall.
Isabella: Well, I just came by to tell you that I can't join in on the fun today. I've been charge of the task of recording the audio book version of the Fireside Girls Compendium Guide, it's gonna take forever.
Baljeet: That book does not look so intimidating.
Isabella: Dude! This is just the table of contents. The actual book is being transported from a secret bunker to a recording studio at the Fireside Girls Lodge. (The book is seen being air-lifted into the lodge) Seriously, this is going to take me a week.
Phineas: Hey, we can help. We'll just put this rock climbing wall off 'till tomorrow.
Candace: Wait. What? No! You guys keep working, I'll narrate the audiobook. (To Isabella) You stay here and help the boys. Not only will I finish recording your book today, I'll do it by four o'clock.
Isabella: So, let me get this straight; You'll do all the work, while I spend the day with Phineas? Mmm.... Deal. But do you know anyone who can work a state-of-the-art soundboard? Someone who can edit huge digital files? Someone who can understand basic mic-ing techniques?
(Irving slowly peeps over the side of a fence and emits small squealing noises)
Candace: (annoyed) What is it, Irving?
Irving: Okay, I'll do it. But only if Isabella says "where's Perry?"
Candace: No deal.
Irving: You drive a hard bargain, I admit.
Isabella: It's okay, I was about to ask that anyway!
(Perry jumps into his water bowl, and enters his lair)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. we're getting reports that there is a distinct smell of confectioner sugar, and icing coming form Doofenshmirtz's building. He must be up to something evil and sweet. Sweet and evil. "Sweevil" if you will. Go and stop him.
♪ Perry! ♪
Irving: ...and put your headphones on. Fireside Girls Compendium, page one, and take one. Whenever you're ready.
Candace: Ma May Me Mo Mu. Topeka, Kansas. Topeka, Kansas. (Cut to reveal those are the actual words printed in the book.) Man this is the worst book dedication ever. How we doing in there Irving?
Irving: Levels are fine.
(Song: "The Fireside Girls" (instrumental))
Candace: Page one. Welcome Fireside girl. You're about to embark on a trans-formative journey that you will remember for years to come. (Later) ...and water should be boiled. Now on to part two of the introduction. (Later still) (hoarsely) Section 12, part 6. How to start a fire using only bobby pins and a hat. (Even later) Section 25, part 16. How to tell if a marshmallow is properly roasted. (Candace stumbles, and coughs dryly.)
Irving: Can I get you some water?
Candace: Maybe. (She glances at the clock) N-Keep it rolling, keep it rolling. (She continues) Beginning Section 25, part 17.
Phineas: Okay, gang. Is everybody all strapped into their harness.
Baljeet: Ready! But it is also the worst wedgie I have ever had.
Buford: Oh really?
Baljeet: Present company excluded.
Phineas: All righty then. Let's go.
(Song: "Rock Climbing Wall")
♪ We keep on climbing, climbing like kudzu, ♪
♪ A creeping ficus up a climbing wall. ♪
♪ A social climber, climbing with debutantes; ♪
♪ There's Escanaba, I can see Montreal. ♪
♪ No, I've never been so happy, ♪
♪ Felt alive or looked so tall ♪
♪ Plus it's also a good aerobic workout ♪
♪ Climbing up a rock climbing wall... ♪
♪ As long as you don't fall! ♪
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Why if it isn't Perry the Platypus. And when I say "isn't" I mean "is". I know you're into martial arts. But I prefer the confectionery arts myself. (A gingerbread house falls on Perry) Gingerbread house trap. (Peeking through a window in the house)
(Song: "We Wish You A Merry Christmas" (Evil jingle version, instrumental))
Doofenshmirtz: Hey it looks a lot bigger on the inside than it does on the outside. Here, have some cozy gumdrop slippers. Hehehe. Now where was I? Oh yeah. I think I know why I'm having a hard time taking over the Tri-State Area It's because of dinner parties. Follow me, it goes somewhere. You see my brother Roger is a success, because of his amazing dinner parties, where he dazzles important guests, with his magnetic charm. But what if he were unable to charm anyone, because his fabulous dinner parties were over, before they began!? That's why I created this: the Bring-out-the-Dessert-inator! You see everyone knows that once the dessert comes out, the party's over. T-That's what's called a social cue. This rocket will go into a Rogercentric orbit around his house. At the wrong moment it will shoot a blast which will make Roger bring out the dessert. Ending his dinner party before it can begin. He'll lose his charming edge, and people will lose interest, in him. Bing-Bang-Boom. They'll stop voting for him, and that's when I'll slink in and takeove-- You know, I know I'm grasping at straws here, and ugh. I'll probably end up grasping a bendy-straw, and fall on my face, requiring months of rehab to learn how to monologue, all over again (Perry throws one of the gumdrop shoes at the Bring-out-the-Dessert-inator, hitting Doofenshmirtz with the ray) and off to empowerment camp, where I'll have to fall backwards-- Who want's desserts? (Doofenshmirtz goes off and grabs a few desserts) I made this lovely tiramisu. Heeey... It works! Oh you think you're very funny Perry the Platypus, blasting me with my own Bring-out-the-Dessert-inator. (Perry throws his other shoe at the -inator) Oh-ho-ho. I hope you left some room! I made a yummy double layered pumpkin cheesecake it has creamy-- Oh! You got me again. Well you made me bring it to you, so you're going to eat it. (Doofenshmirtz shoves a dessert at Perry, who bites Doofenshmirtz's hand) Ow! (Perry's cage breaks, but the -inator zaps him) Haha. Now it's your turn to bring out the-- (Perry leaps toward Doofenshmirtz, and he smashes the tiramisu into his mouth, sending them both flying back into the kitchen)
(Song: "Weaponry" (instrumental))
Doofenshmirtz: How about a banana split? (He shove a banana split down Perry's bill) Haha! Finally got your just desserts. What are you doing with that pound cake? I was saving that for company! (Perry forces Doofenshmirtz to eat the entire pound cake) Oh! Oh wow! Perry the Platypus, I'm getting such a sugar rush! How 'bout you? (Perry is shown to be having a sugar rush as well)
Candace: (in a hoarse voice) In conclusion, may your Fireside Girl experience be a treasured one with memories for a lifetime. The end.
Irving: Umm... I'd like you to do one more take on that last chapter.
Candace: I'd like to hurt you.
Irving: That's a wrap!
(At the top of the rock climbing wall)
Buford: Hey guys! I can see my thoughts! They're all sparkly and spread out around us.
Baljeet: It is the lack of oxygen; it makes you light-headed.
Phineas: I think it's time to climb down.
Baljeet: Ha-ha, coming down!
Buford: Oh I get it, we're in space. AAAAAGHAAGH! I heard that.
(Song: "Platypus Walk" (instrumental))
Doofenshmirtz: Can you do this, Perry the Platypus? Can you jump really fast, up and down, up and down, up and down, up and down? Yeah, that's it, Perry the Platypus! Doesn't it feel good? Let's be jumping buddies. Let's just eat dessert and jump up and down and up and down and up and down all day. It'll be our thing. Just remember: I-I invented this. Because I am the inventor.
Candace: (In the backyard) Yes! it's still here!
Phineas: Hey Candace! How'd it go?
Candace: I finished recording, Irving's uploading it to the Fireside Girl mainframe as we speak
Isabella: Thanks so much Candace!
Candace: Yeah, yeah. Now the important thing to get Mom out here. (Hoarsely and quietly she yells) Mom! Mom!
Phineas: Do you want me to get Mom?
Candace: No! No. You stay here. Nobody move. If we leave, this thing'll disappear. She'll be out here in two minutes, with her bird watching group. I'll wait.
Doofenshmirtz: Jump. Jump. Jump. Jump. Jump. Jump. Jump. Jump. Jump. Jump. (Doofenshmirtz collapses) Aww. Oh, sugar crash. (The -inator starts beeping) Oh! The Bring-out-the-Dessert-inator it must be almost time for Roger's dinner party to begin. (Doofenshmirtz sees Perry on the floor) Haha! Sugar crash! (The -inator launches) There she goes! And you can't do anything about it, because you're on a sugar crash. (Perry takes a plate of food out from under his hat.) Wait! Wait, what is that? Protein, and carbohydrates? No, well don't eat that! (Perry does so anyway) No! (Perry chases after the -inator on his jetpack) Okay, but, but let's do that jumping thing again sometime.
(The -inator fires)
Linda: (To her bird watching group) Okay gang, everyone follow me outside. The bird should be right-- (Linda gets hit with the -inator) Hey, who's ready for dessert? Doesn't that sound good?
Lawrence: Oh, see now? Brits like dessert.
Bird Watcher Male: Does this mean she wants us to leave?
Bird Watcher Female: Well according to social convention, I guess.
(Perry lands on the -inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Welcome Perry the Platypus. What took you so long? I'm speaking to you through this amplifier right next to the self destruct button. The rocket will soon be in orbit around my brother's house, ready for the next dinner party. And you can ride that rocket until your tail falls off, I don't care. Or until you find the self destruct button which is right next to (Perry presses the button) Aw, dang it! Curse you Perry the Plat-- (The -inator explodes) ...typus.
Candace: Mom! (She takes out her cellphone and calls Linda)
Linda: Candace?
Candace: Mom! Mom! Come outside!
Linda: Hon, I can't here you. Let's talk in a minute. (She hangs up) Who wants this a la mode?
Candace: Mom! (She runs inside)
Isabella: Look! Ooh! It the rare bent-bill knot-hatch! Isn't she beautiful? (The bird begins to pick at the rock climbing wall) She's finding material for her nest.
(A huge swam of the bird demolishes the rock climbing wall for nest building materials)
Phineas: Well, I guess they've got a lot of nests to make. We did build the thing out of pressed twigs and lawn clippings.
Ferb: Nature's little recyclers at work.
(Candace drags Linda outside)
Candace: (Seeing the rock climbing wall has gone) What? What? No! But, but but...
Linda: Oh, honey, I see it! (The rare bent-bill knot-hatch is shown to be on top of Candace's head) Don't move. Hold still. (Linda takes a picture) Got it! Oh, Candace, I wouldn't have seen it, if you hadn't grabbed my forcibly, and pulled me out here. Thank you! So, you kids want some dessert?
Phineas: Yeah!
Ferb: Some tea with honey would help that throat. And, there's crumpets in the conservatory as well. (He walks off)
Candace: He's so British.

End Credits
Phineas: Let's go!
♪ We keep on climbing, climbing like kudzu, ♪
♪ A creeping ficus up a climbing wall. ♪
♪ A social climber, climbing with debutantes; ♪
♪ There's Escanaba, I can see Montreal. ♪
♪ No, I've never been so happy, ♪
♪ Climbing up a rock climbing wall... ♪



(Scene opens in the backyard)
Phineas: Well, Ferb, we can cross that one off our bucket list.
(Buford walks in with Baljeet, he is dressed like Isabella)
Buford: Hey guys! What'cha doin'?
Phineas: Uh, I think the bigger question is: What are you doing, Buford?
Buford: I'm filling in for Isabella while she visitin' her grandparents in New Mexico.
Baljeet: The dress was all his idea, though.
Buford: Hey, I got the legs for it. (takes off wig) Ah, New Mexico. My great grandfather once saw something mysterious in New Mexico...
(Buford begins a flashback)
Buford: (voiceover) There he was, happily plying his trade, cowpunching.
(Buford's grandfather punches a cow, it punches back)
Buford: (continuing) It was a dangerous in profession.
Buford's grandfather: Darn tootin'
Buford: And then one day, he saw it.
♪ Chupacabra Ho! ♪
Buford's grandfather: What the Sam Hill?!? Huh?!?
(End flashback)
Buford: It was the elusive Chapricobra.
Phineas: The what?
Baljeet: Based on his extensive history of malapropisms, I would say that he is talking about the Chupacabra, the Latin American goat sucker, that is said to haunt the deserts of Mexico and South-Western America.
Phineas: That's just a myth. Like the Lake Nose Monster, and Klimpaloon, the magical old timey bathing suit that lives in the Himalayas.
Baljeet: Umm, have you not proven those things to be true?
Phineas: So we have. (to Ferb) Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today. We're gonna search for an elusive creature that tends to slip away unse -- hey! Where's Perry?
(At the O.W.C.A. headquarters, Carl begins to give a presentation)
Carl: I-Is this thing on? I want to thank you all for taking some time outta your busy schedules to attend our compulsory O.W.C.A. Animal Sensitive Seminar. However, if you currently are an animal, you may be excused to your missions.
(The animals leave)
Major Monogram: What -- what -- what? They get to go? What is this, Pick On the Higher Species Day?
(The animals turn around and make angry noises)
Major Monogram: What? Humans are a higher species, everybody knows that!
Carl: And...that's why you're here today, sir.
(In the backyard)
Phineas: Gentlemen and gentlemen, we present to you the Chupa-Copter!
Buford and Baljeet: Wow! Right on! Etcetera.
Phineas: Alright, everyone! Take your seats and buckle up! We're off to New Mexico to find the elusive Chupacabra!
Baljeet: But what are we going to use as bait?
Buford: Oh, I got that handled. (He picks up an Isabella suit.) Check it out! It's reversible! (He turns the suit inside out) Tada! A goat costume!
Phineas: Alright, then! Let's start trackin' us a chupacabra!
(Phineas pushes a red button followed by other buttons.)
Computer: Searching chupacabra traits: Rooting, sniffing, long neck, desert dwelling.
Phineas: Ferb, let's light this candle!
(Ferb gives a thumbs up as the Chupa-Copter lifts off the ground.)
(In Candace's bedroom, Candace is with Stacy showing her all of her identical outfits.)
Candace: Look! Everything in my wardrobe is jinxed!
Stacy: Jinxed?
Candace: Uh-huh. I was wearing this one when the boys made a giant gelatin monster. I was wearing this one when the boys split me into like 50 mes. And this one is from the whole Meap thing. And this one... Well, I just spilled grape juice on it. (Indistinct) But still...
(During Candace's spiel on her clothes, the Chupa-Copter peers outside the window. The image of her appears on the computer.)
Computer: Begin analysis. Rooting.
Candace: (gets out a perfume bottle) Ooh. Je Bust Number 12. (she sprays some on herself)
Computer: Sniffing.
Candace: I guess I could wear this tonight.
(The computer zooms in on her neck.)
Computer: Long neck. (The picture zooms out.) Non-desert dwelling. Not chupacabra.
Candace: Wait. Somebody's judging me. (she looks outside the window. The chopper flies away) PHINEAS AND FERB! YOU ARE SOOOOOOO BUSTED!!!...For something!
(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, there is a biplane sitting atop a ramp Doofenshmirtz has built)
♪ Dooby dooby doo-bah ♪
♪ Dooby dooby doo-bah ♪
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Well, hello, Perry the Platypus. You like the new Bi-plane? Pretty sweet huh? Uh, I got it off the internet. (Perry gets trapped under a hair drying machine) Don't worry about your hat; the heat is really good for the felt. Look what I invented... (pours a tonic on a mannequin which regrows its hair he chopped off) It grows your hair back. Got it in all the stores, but it's not selling it like I thought of it. That is why it got a catchy name: Get back hair.
♪ Get Back Hair ♪
Doofenshmirtz: It should be flying off the shelves. I-I just don't get it. Anyway that is about to change. Behold, the Switch-Place-inator. Wha- Why do you look so unimpressed? I'll explain. I simply fly over town in my biplane, Ride off! And I look for someone with a receding airline, standing next to someone with a full head of hair. I fire, and presto! The hair switches places. The person who was formally hairline challenged, is thrilled, and the other guy is- well he's gonna spend a lot of money to get his hair back. Thus, Get Back Hair.
♪ Get Back Hair ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Here, I'll show you how it works. Okay, Perry the Platypus, how would you like to trade places with a hungry, man eating shark? (Doofenshmirtz zaps the two with the -inator, causing the shark to flail on the floor, whil Perry swims happily in the shark's former tank) Oh yeah, you're semi-aquatic. Well, I've got some other tricks up my sleeve. Like switching places with a- (The shark, flails around, and manages to bite Doofenshmirtz's upper body) Aw, ah man, I did not see that coming. (Doofenshmirtz throws the shark off him) Okay Señor pantalones inteligente, that's, Mr. Smarty Pants... Spanish. (He fires his -inator switching the places of a lightbulb, and the tank. The tank flips and falls, trapping Perry under it) "Tanks" for playing Perry the Platypus. See ya' around.
Phineas: Okay guys, welcome to New Mexico. Ferb, let's lower the chupacabra bait. (They lower Buford in his goat costume)
Buford: (bleats) Hey! Hey! Watches the cactuses. Ow! Ah! Who's driving up there?
Phineas: Baljeet?
Baljeet: (He laughs nervously) Sorry.
Doofenshmirtz: (Flying in his biplane) Now to go make my millions with my trusty Switch-Place-inator! Where is it? (He sees Perry has it, and Perry shoots himself and a bird, switching their places, and making Perry fall into Doofenshmirtz's plane) Perry the Platypus, you didn't by any chance hand it over, it belongs to me. Give it, give it. (They begin fighting and doing other things on top of the wing, such as fishing) This is what I call "fly fishing" (or teaching Perry to ride a bike) Haha! Yes! Yes! Attaboy! (Throwing Perry a party) Make a wish. (Perry blows out the candles) What'd you wish for (Perry resumes beating up Doofenshmirtz) Really, that's what you wished for?
(In the backyard)
Candace: I'm going to wait right here until the bustees return. Oh, and they will return.
Stacy: Sooo...since you're in busting mode, I take it, my services are not required? (Candace does not answer) Yep, I'm superfluous. (leaves)
(shift to the desert)
Buford: (bleating)
(Song: Chupacabra Ho)
Swampy: ♪ We're searchin' for a beast of yore with a long neck and a tail; ♪
♪ Everywhere we look we lose on this long and dusty trail... ♪
♪ We're westward ho 'cause the ranchers know somethin' isn't right; ♪
♪ Their goats are bein' snatched away in the darkness of the night... ♪
♪ Chupacabra ho... ♪
Swampy and kids: ♪ Chupacabra, chupacabra: ♪
Phineas: ♪ What just jumped the wire? ♪
Swampy and kids: ♪ Chupacabra, chupacabra: ♪
Buford: ♪ I'm starting to perspire! ♪
Swampy and kids: ♪ Chupacabra, chupacabra: ♪
Buford: I'm not usually a crier, But isn't that-
Baljeet: ♪ The goat vampire! ♪
Swampy: ♪ Lots of gangs have tried to hunt and flush it from its lair, ♪
♪ But not 'til now have the gang of kids pursued it from the air... ♪
♪ Cowboys tried to trap and trick it with just about everything, ♪
♪ But no one's ever tried to lure it with a bully on a string. ♪
♪ Bully on a string... ♪
♪ Chupacabra ho... ♪
♪ Chupacabra ho... ♪
Buford: Hey, guys! I think we got somethin'!
Phineas: Gotcha, Buford. Let's see if we're getting any --
(the computer beeps, it shows "TARGET LOCATED")
Phineas: Sweet!
Buford: (bleats)
(We see the legs of the Chupacabra. It is in a big ball of violence)
Buford: Almost there. (the Chupacabra falls into a hole) Bingo!
Phineas: All right! Let's go check it out. (on the ground) So that's what a Chupacabra looks like.
Baljeet: Yes. Surprising, is it not?
Buford: Well, I think he's kinda cute.
Phineas: Now we just have to get him back home.
(They fly home carrying the Chupacabra in the crate. Candace can be seen behind the tree)
Phineas: Wow. The Chupacabra doesn't sound too happy.
Candace: Aha! A real live Chupacabra, eh? Wait til Mom sees this!
(the Chupacabra growls)
Buford: I'll bet he's hungry. I totally sound like that when my blood sugar's low.
Baljeet: Does your mom have any goat-based food products?
Phineas: I don't know. Can't hurt to check the fridge.
(they exit)
Candace: Now's my chance! (runs up to the crate) Woo! Evidence at last! Wait a minute. Let's just make sure it's really in here. (opens the crate) Here Chupa... (The Chupacabra scratches her in the face) This is the best day EVER! (she stops for a moment) Wait a minute. I'd better move this to the front lawn where Mom can see it right when she gets home. (she pushes the crate to the driveway and dials the phone) Hello? Mom?
Linda: (Driving, while talking to Candace with an earpiece) Hi, Candace. What is it?
Candace: Mom, listen. The boys have caught a Chupacabra. You have to get home quick and bust them.
Linda: Take it easy honey, I'm just a few blocks away.
Candace: Awesome, thanks! (hangs up) Whew, now all I do is wait. While I sit on top of the crate for safe-keeping.
(The chupacabra growls)
Candace: Hold that thought. Mom will be back soon.
(In the kitchen...)
Baljeet: Ha, how convenient that your mother has a whole terrine of goat biryani.
Phineas: I know, right? Those gourmet cooking classes are sure comin' in handy.
(Linda is driving on the street, Candace is watching her)
Candace: Hehehehe,..hehehehehe...
(In the backyard)
Buford: (Carrying the goat biryani) Hey! Wait for me guys!
Phineas: Whoa! (his perspective, there is a hole where the Chupacabra's crate was) The Chupacabra's gone! (to Ferb) This must be how Candace feels when this happens.
(On Doofenshmirtz's bi-plane)
Doofenshmirtz: You know I've had it with you, Perry the Platypus. You never, never let me have a -- (Perry pulls Doofenshmirtz's parachute, sending him flying off the plane) AAAAAAHHHHH CURSE YOU, PERRY THE PLATYPUS!
(Perry's watch beeps)
Major Monogram: Agent P, we've just heard that our New Mexico operative, Agent CH, has had his cover compromised. We have the coordinates of his location, and you are the closest agent. Get to it.
Carl: (offscreen) Keep writing sir.
(Major Monogram returns to writing "Animals are people too" on a chalkboard. Perry starts driving the plane)
(Scene shifts to the driveway, Linda pulls up)
Candace: Ee-ee-ee-ee...ee-ee-ee-ee...Mom, you won't believe this.
Linda: Now, Candace, why would you ever give me reason not to believe you?
Candace: What if I told you, that Phineas and Ferb captured an actual Chupacabra?
Linda: Well, that would test my suspension of disbelief.
(Above them, Perry flies by and zaps something in the backyard and the Chupacabra with Doofenshmirtz's Switch-Place-inator. Neither of them notice)
Candace: Well, disbelieve no more, 'cause I've got it right here! And it's not going anywhere.
Linda: (flatly) ...Rrright.
Candace: Oh, ye of excessive sarcasm, (She opens the crate) I present to you...the elusive, Chupacabra!
(Buford comes out of the crate)
Linda: (with disdain) I don't believe it.
Buford: Hey! How did I get into that crate?!
Linda: Well, I'm at least glad to see you kids are going to finish up my leftover biryani.
Buford: Yes, ma'am.
Candace: But...but, but, but...
(In the backyard, Perry watches as the Chupacabra aka Agent CH, gives him a thumbs up and flies away in the Chupa-copter. Perry waves)
♪ Chupacabra ho ♪
Phineas: I don't get it. He usually shows up by now. Oh, there you are Perry. You'll never believe this, but for a while there, we had a real, live Chupacabra. (they take out their smartphones) Here, we took pictures.
(Phineas looks through the pictures on his smartphone, but all the pictures show are a disappointing amalgam of his finger, the New Mexican Landscape, and parts of the Chupacabra. The same goes for Ferb and Baljeet)
Baljeet: Next...next...next...next...
Ferb: Well, I guess perhaps the universe wants somethings left un-photographed. Like Chupacabras, or...group photos where everyone has their eyes open.
(A Chupacabra roar is heard)



(Scene opens up in the Flynn-Fletcher house kitchen)
Stacy: (from inside) Futons, bouillon, platypus food... (Cut to her, looking in a pantry.) Ooh! Microwave popcorn! Need this.
Candace: And I have sodas. What else do we wanna bring over your house?
Stacy: Doesn't matter. I doubt we'll not be able to eat while we're watching this movie.
Candace: The Grievance. So scary no one over the age 45 will even watch it!
Stacy: It will be even scarier 'cause my family's out for the day and we will be alone at the house.
Candace: Great!
Stacy: Candace, are you sure you can handle this? (They go out to the backyard.) It took me four days to pry you out from under the bed last time we saw a scary movie. (outside) What? What are you looking at? Oh no.
Candace: Phineas and Ferb! What are you guys up to?
Phineas: It's a surprise for Isabella's birthday!
Candace: A surprise...
Stacy: Here we go again.
Candace: ...for Isabella's...
Stacy: Give me those sodas. (She grabs the sodas Candace was holding)
Candace: ...Birthday.
Stacy: See ya. (She walks off)
Phineas: Building supplies? Check. Guest list? Check. Perry? Hey, where's Perry?
Stacy: (Still leaving) Yeah, where does that platypus go everyday?
(In Perry's lair everything is dark except for the Major Monogram on the screen.)
Major Monogram: Agent P.? (The lights flicker on) Ah, there you are. What do you think of the new motion sensor lights we've installed in your lair. (The lights go off again) Um... Agent P. try flailing your arms about that should- (Agent P. does so and the lights turn on) There we go! Now, Doofenshmirtz has been driving around town in some sort of truck that turns inanimate objects, like parking meters, into bugs. Eww. I want you to-- (The lights go off in where Major Monogram is) Really? Carl, I'm waiving my arms, why aren't the lights coming back on?
(Carl laughs evilly)
Major Monogram: That's not funny, Carl.
(In the backyard Ferb, Candace, Buford, Adyson, Gretchen, Katie, Milly, and Holly listen to Phineas.)
Phineas: Okay, time to commence operation INAP.
Adyson: (To Candace) That stands for Isabella's Natal Anniversary Party.
Candace: I know what INAP means. Just get to the dangerous part I'm readying the phone.
Phineas: Okay everyone, we need to carry all this stuff over to Isabella's backyard, so we can set it up for--
Isabella: Hi, Phineas. What'cha doooin'? You're not planning something for my birthday, are you?
Phineas: Don't look, don't look, don't look! Nothing to see here.
Isabella: Phineas! But all I really want for my birthday is-
Phineas: Don't ruin the surprise! (He laughs nervously) Buford, get her out of here.
Buford: You got it. (He throws a bag over Isabella and carries her out)
Isabella: But what I real-
Buford: I've carried a lot of squirmin' bags in my time, but this is the first time I knew who was in it. (He walks off)
Isabella: Augh! What I was going to say was all I want for my birthday is some alone time with-- (motions to Phineas) Never mind. (She walks out)
Baljeet: You wanted to be alone with this bag?

(Song: "Isabella's Birthday Song")
Isabella: ♪ Today is my birthday and there's just one thing I'm wishing for ♪
♪ To spend some time alone with a certain someone I adore ♪
♪ It doesn't have to be formal or fancy ♪
♪ It's not a deal breaker if it's not romancy ♪
♪ After all of this time, I've lowered my expectations ♪
Baljeet and Buford: ♪ Expectations... ♪
Isabella: ♪ Don't need a limo or a corsage, ♪
♪ Just him and me without the entourage ♪
♪ And I won't be upset (I won't be upset) ♪
♪ At this emotional roulette (Emotional roulette) ♪
♪ I'll take any little thing that I can get... ♪
♪ Like eating some french fries: I'll take it! ♪
♪ Stuck on a tarmac: I'm good! (I'm good!) ♪
♪ Trapped under rubble: That's awesome! (That's awesome!) ♪
♪ Moving a piano: If we only could! ♪
♪ Getting orthodontia: Sign me up! (Sign me up!) ♪
♪ In a smelly subway car: I'm in! (I'm in!) ♪
♪ We could be reupholstering a love seat: ♪
♪ I call that a win-win! ♪
♪ 'Cause that's all I really want; ♪
♪ Just time alone with my triangular savant ♪
♪ I'm not asking for the world; I'm just a simple girl ♪
♪ And I would change my mournful tone... ♪
♪ If we could just be alone ♪
♪ Just be alone... ♪
(She arrives at her backyard)
Phineas and kids: Happy birthday, Isabella!
(Perry chases after Doofenshmirtz's trucks, and uses a wooden ramp he packed, he launches himself on top of the truck)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the platypus? It's no use trying to break through my protective bubble. It's platyproof-poof. I mean, oh you know what I mean. Anyway, you're probably wondering what I'm doing, driving this evil bug bus around town. I just got to thinking about all the things that bug me. Portable outhouses, high voltage signs. "Danger High Voltage". I'll decide how much voltage I can take! That's why I created the Bugs-me-inator. It turns whatever bugs me into bugs. And, since I can't stand bugs, I'm protected from them inside this bubble. (Perry points to a bug inside Doofenshmirtz's bubble) Huh? Oh, that's on the outs-- Ow! Get it off! Get it off! Get it off! Get it off! (Doofenshmirtz open the bubble to let the bugs out) Wait I'm not ready! (Perry punches him, causing him to spin around his bubble) Whoa, whoa whoa. Right to the point huh? You know Perry the Platypus, more than anything, you bug me. (He fires the -inator at Perry, who dodges it, making the beam, instead, hit one of Doofenshmirtz's shoes) Ah! My shoe! Ow Get off! Get off! Get off! Ow! (Doofenshmirtz launches himself at Perry, but Perry redirects him back into his bubble, spinning him again.) Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Boy I really got to rethink the design on this think. By the way, you know we're on a runaway bus careening at high speed with no one at the wheel, right?
Stacy: (To the movie) Don't go in there. Don't go in there. Don't go in there. Don't go in there. You went in there. Oh, gross she brought thousands of tiny bugs into the house. What could be worse than that? (Doofenshmirtz's bus crashes into Stacy's house) Big bug! Ahhh! (Stacy hides behind the couch) OMG! Perry! What are you doing here?! And why are you wearing a hat? Look out! (Doofenshmirtz flies onto the couch) And who's this pharmacist?
Doofenshmirtz: Really? Really? W-why does everyone just stampede to that conclusion? Other people wear lab coats you know. Why, why don't you say, "Oh look a rocket scientist." Or a veterinarian?
Stacy: Are you a veterinarian?
Doofenshmirtz: No... But that's not the point.
Phineas: Check it out. (Isabella's massive cake is seen being wheeled in.) We made your favorite, a red velvet cake, with a little surprise.
Baljeet: Ooh, I hope they do not have a male dancer popping out of it.
Buford: They asked, but they couldn't afford me.
Phineas: Will you do the honors Ferb?
(Ferb presses a button, and the candles light.)
Phineas: (To Isabella) Make a wish.
Isabella: (In her thoughts) I wish for time alone with Phineas.
(She blows out the candles, and streamers and confetti pop out)
Holly: (To Candace) What are you doing?
Candace: Waiting for things to get dangerous, so I can my mom to come bust the boys.
Holly: That's not dangerous?
Candace: Dude, this is nothing, it'll get worse.
(Back on top of the cake)
Phineas: So, did you get what you wished for?
Isabella: Uh-
Buford: Yeah, it's every girls wish to have her backyard covered in litter. Let's go you two. Next event.
Phineas: You're gonna love this.
Stacy: Is this where you go everyday Perry?
Doofenshmirtz: (While fighting Perry) Oh yeah, pretty much. I create -inators, and he breaks in and thwarts my scheme, and it's, it's kinda our thing. (Perry knocks Doofenshmirtz to the ground) Ooh! The Grievance! I saw this in theaters. I still have nightmares about the greasy little girl who comes out of the base--
Stacy: (Still behind the couch) No! Don't tell me how it ends!
Phineas: And, now, what's a birthday party without a piñata the size of your house? Ferb? Hit it. (Ferb breaks the giant piñata with a giant bat, releasing smaller ones for everyone else to hit.)
Adyson: Woohoo!
Ginger: I'm gonna bat with this stick.
Gretchen: Give up the candy, yo!
Holly: (Still speaking with Candace) This isn't dangerous enough?
Candace: We're getting there.
Baljeet: Isabella, this must be your best birthday ever.
Isabella: (A little sadly) Yeah, sure. It's super cool. I didn't need--
Buford: Okay Birthday girl, onto the next. (He trows a bag over her, and deposits her at her pool)
Phineas: Gather 'round everyone, and keep your eyes on the pool. Isabella, it's grand finale time! (He pulls a lever, and the pool begins to shake.)
Holly: Um? This might be the time to call.
Candace: Yep! (She dials Linda) Mom? You've got to come across the street immediately.
(The structure continues to rise out of the pool.)
Kids: Ooh!
Milly: What a grand, and glorious, and potentially bustable gift!
Adyson: I've never seen anything like it!
Linda: That key? That key?
Candace: Mom! Mom!
Linda: Here, grab these will ya?
(She passes the groceries off to Candace.)
Candace: Mom, you've got to see what the boys are doing in Isabella's yard!
Linda: Isabella's yard? That's a new one.
Stacy: Alright, look. You're getting oil all over the place. Someone's going to have to-- (Stacy trips, and falls in the pool of oil.)
Doofenshmirtz: No! It's the greasy Grievance girl from the basement! No! No! What have I done? Why do you have a grievance against me? (Doofenshmirtz screams, and jumps out the window)
Stacy: (Fixing her hair) Whoa. What was that all about? Do the Flynn Fletchers know you fight evil scientists? (Stacy accidentally steps on the remote firing the -inator, and Perry whacks it with a bat, destroying it. The -inator beam bounces off a satellite and heads back towards Earth)
Candace: Back here, Mom.
(The -inator beam hits Isabella's gift, turning it into butterflies.)
Isabella: Butterflies? I love butterflies! Oh, thank you Phineas!
Phineas: (Confused at how the gift turned to butterflies) What?
Candace: But, but, but, but, but... Butterflies?!
Linda: Oh, how beautiful. How long did it take you guys to collect them all?
(At Stacy's house, Monogram shows up, disguised as a Danville Water and Power employee)
Major Monogram: Let's go boys, looks like we've got some cleaning up to do. Alright you and you begin with the pavement area around here. And you... (Monogram rings the doorbell) Danville Water and Power. We're here to read your gas thingy.
(Perry leads Stacy outside)
Stacy: Perry? What is all this? (Perry hands Stacy a pamphlet) A-a host family, mind erasing, balloon coverup? I mean is all this really necessary? (Perry shrugs) Wait a minute! It says right here in your silly little pamphlet that if your host family finds out about your agent status, then anyone who's seen you has to have their memory erased, or you'll get relocated. Perry, I'm not part of your host family!  I know, I know, it's a technicality. Look, I don't want Candace and the boys to lose you, but I also do not want my mind erased. I'm on the last ten minutes of that Grievance movie, and I don't want to have to watch that whole scary mess again. So, uh, can we just keep this a secret? (Perry smiles and tips his hat to Stacy)
Carl: Luckily Sir, it looks like the residents were not home.
Stacy: (At the front door) Hello? Uh, anybody there?
Major Monogram: (To Carl) I'll take care of it. (To Stacy) Oh, hello there young teenager. You live here?
Stacy: Yes. I walked home from the mall to find... this. What is happening here?
Major Monogram: Oh, you didn't see what happened? Well, um. We're with the city, and there was a swamp gas incident here. We'll just get it all cleaned up, and get out of your hair. (He turns to Carl) Psst. Hey Carl. We're not going to need the mind erasing device. (He looks back at Stacy) I mean monkey wrench. Hehe. Monkey wrench, we don't need that.
Katie: Happy birthday, Isabella!
(The Fireside girls begin to leave)
Isabella: Thanks guys!
Phineas: I still can't figure out what went wrong with the grand finale. After the laser light show, and the fireballs, the swans should have been released, and-
Isabella: Phineas, I really liked the butterflies. Thank you.
Phineas: Well to make it up to you, it's kinda lame but... maybe Ferb and I could, I don't know, take you out for some ice cream or something?
Isabella: Uh-
Ferb: I...just remembered there's...something I need to do. You two go.
Phineas: Is that cool?
Isabella: Yes! Very cool. Ferb.
(Isabella fist bumps Ferb.)
(At the Soda Fountain)
Phineas: So, did you get what you wished for? Oh, yeah, I already asked that. Confetti, and streamers. Hold on, gonna get another napkin. (He goes off)
Isabella: (romantically) And butterflies, you always give me butterflies.

End Credits
♪ Da da da da ♪
Candace: (From her window) Ah, look at them out there. What are they up to? Ah, it looks like Phineas is saying "Where's Perry?" Huh. Where do you think Perry goes everyday Stace?
Stacy: (Quickly and nervously) How should I know!? Why are you asking me!? How should I know!? Don't look at me!
Candace: (She stares at Stacy for a moment) Nah, I don't know why I was asking you.
Stacy: (In her head) Whew, no one suspects a thing.



(Workers are seen in front of the Flynn-Fletcher house preparing for block party)
Man: (dejectedly through a walkie-talkie to Linda) Yeah, roger, Madam Chairwoman. We do have confirmation that the fireworks area has been flooded.
Linda: (through the walkie-takie) I understand. You can't do anything if your wicks are wet.
(Phineas and Ferb walk over)
Phineas: Hi, Mom! How's the setup coming for the big block party?
Linda: I'm totally overwhelmed and now I have no fireworks for the big finale.
Phineas: Anything we can do to help?
Linda: Oh that's sweet boys.
Man: (Through the walkie-talkie) Madam Chairwoman, we have a code blue at the beignet bus.
Linda: Yes, OK. I got it. (to the boys) I'm at my wit's end and I've got no finale.
Phineas: What about a laser light show?
Linda: That's a great idea! (she hands a stack of papers to Ferb) Here's a budget and a list of companies that do light shows. Uh, can you just handle it for me? I've gotta run. (she runs off) Thanks so much!
Phineas: (at Ferb) You know, I think it might be easier to do the light show ourselves. Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today-I mean tonight.
(Ferb throws the papers over his shoulder and Lawrence walks up pushing speakers on a furniture dolly)
Lawrence: (he rolls his tongue) Hello, hello hello! Can you guess what my DJ costume is for tonight's big Mardi Gras block party?
Phineas: Uh... scary post-apocolyptic handpuppet?
Lawrence: Why does everyone guess that? No, I'm a Mardi Gras jester. Speaking of which, where's Perry?

(Perry is in his lair in front of the monitor)
Major Monogram: Hello there Agent P. Your assignment concerns tonight's big block party. We've intercepted intel that Doof is planning on attendin' tonight's festivities "just for the fun of it". We need you to attend the block party and confirm that he's not up to no good. (pause) I realize that's a double negative but I think it still works. Not up to no good... yeah, i-it works. Unfortunately since your surveillance will take place in close proximity to your hosts, you will need to be in disguise for the duration of your mission. Carl, activate the hydraulic costume chamber.
(carnival music plays as Agent P is put in a balloon animal costume)
Major Monogram: Oh Agent P, you look adorable as a balloon animal. Now, get out there and laissez le bon temps rouler. ("Let the good times roll.")
(Perry salutes and floats off)

(Candace and Stacy are in Candace's room talking)
Candace: This dumb block party totally is throwing off my entire day. Jeremy's stuck working the Slushy Dawg concession, my parents are busy with preparation, and the boys are so preoccupied with the party they haven't done anything remotely bustable all day.
Stacy: (looks out the window and sees the boys in the backyard) Umm, I'm probably gonna regret this, but wouldn't a giant robot insect count?
Candace: Woohoo! I'm back in the game.
Stacy: (flatly) What horrors did I just unleash?
(Candace and Stacy run out into the backyard)
Candace: Phineas, Ferb, what is the giant insect robot thingy?
Phineas: It's not a giant insect robot thingy, it's—
(Ferb drops down in front of Phineas and holds out his hand for a wrench, which Phineas promptly gives to him)
Phineas: It's part of the light show extravaganza for the block party's big finale.
Candace: Huge. Impossible. Bustable. MOM! (she runs off to find Linda)

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Ok Norm, you ready to head out to the block party?
Norm: I'm not going.
Doofenshmirtz: Don't tell me you're still bummed out about not having a date.
Norm: Yes, yes I am.
Doofenshmirtz: Quit your whining. Just go stag like me.
Norm: You mean dress up like a wild forest creature with antlers?
Doofenshmirtz: Ah... not quite. I tried that and it did not go well.
(Doofenshmirtz flashes back where he is in a deer costume, and tied to a car)
Doofenshmirtz: H-hello? I think I may have come to the wrong address.
(End flashback)
Doofenshimrtz: Come on Norm. You might meet a nice popcorn machine or a blender or something.
Norm: You had me at popcorn machine.

(Linda carries various party supplies and Candace runs up to her.)
Candace: Mom Mom Mom Mom!!! Do you know what Phineas and Ferb are doing?!!!
Candace and Linda: They're working on the big finale for the block party tonight!
Candace: Wait, what'd you say?
Linda: I asked the boys to help out with the finale for the party.
Candace: On purpose?
Linda: Yes, Candace, on purpose. I really need the help.
Candace: But, but, but, but, but...
Linda: Now leave them alone so they can get the job done.
(Linda walks away and Stacy comes over toward Candace)
Candace: Situation: unbustable.
Stacy: Ooh, tah-wist!
(Phineas and Ferb show off their invention to Isabella, Buford, and Baljeet)
Phineas: Presenting the Pyrotechnic Holographic Light and Audio Simulator and Electro-magnetic Radioscope!
Ferb: Or P.H.L.A.S.E.R for short.
Buford: Why not just use fireworks? Isn't that traditional for a finale?
Phineas: It may be tradition, but the P.H.L.A.S.E.R is way cooler without the danger of loosing a didget.
(Ferb walks over and pretends to pull off part of his own finger)
Buford: Quit it, Ferb! You're creeping me out man.
Phineas: As soon as we polish off the lenses, we're good to go. Come on guys, let's grab some towels.
(Candace and Stacy sit in lawn chairs watching the gang as they walk off)
Candace: Situation: unbustable.
Stacy: (sighs) Then why are we sitting here? (she grabs Candace's hand) Come on Chuckles, let's have some fun.
Candace: No can bust. No have fun.
(Perry bounces off the tops of port-a-potties)
Occupant 1: Occupied!
Occupant 2: Occupied!
Occupant 3: ¡Ocupado!
Occupant 4: Oui, oui!
(Perry lands behind a booth and takes out binoculars to spy on Doofenshmirtz and Norm)
Doofenshmirtz: (to Norm) Okay, you see that cute popcorn machine over there? You just gotta walk up to her and say something smooth. Do you remember your opening line?
Norm: You've got a pretty hot oil pan.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh yeah, you got game now. (a man with a cotton candy machine stops next to the popcorn machine) Now, see someone else is making a move. You snooze, you lose, Norm.
Norm: I guess I'll just have to get used to being alo-(Norm spots a beautiful girl robot, and angelic music plays) oOONE.
Doofenshmirtz: Norm are you ok?
Norm: My inner circuitry seems to be overloading.
Doofenshmirtz: Aww man. I left the electrical tape in my other labcoat. (He notices what Norm is looking at) Oh now I get it. Y-y-you've got a thing for that girl robot. Ah, she's not bad. I think you got a chance with her if you play your cards right.
Norm: What do I say? I do not believe she has an oil pan to complement.
Doofenshmirtz: Just introduce yourself and, you know, ask her what her sign is. And then run the other way if she says Sagittarius.
Norm: Thank you, sir!
Doofenshmirtz: Go get her, Norm.
(Norm walks over to the female robot.)
Norm: Hi, I'm Norm. What is your sign?
Female Robot: Hi, I am Chloe. I am a Pisces.
(Norm looks around awkwardly and then walks back towards Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Well?
Norm: You did not tell me what to do if she is a Pisces.
Doofenshmirtz: In my experience you get married, and then subsequently divorced but we don't have time for that. We gotta get you rolling.
(Balthazar walks up to Perry at the booth)
Balthazar: Excuse me can I- (Perry shushes him and gives him a balloon fedora) Thanks!
Doofenshmirtz: So are we clear Norm?
Norm: Talk about her interests, and try to find something in common.
Doofenshmirtz: Right, but don't be too obvious. Women like it when you challenge them, and act all superior.
Norm: That does not seem logical.
Doofenshmirtz: We are talking about women here, right? Okay, now remember, don't forget to stay cool.
Norm: No problem, my compressor is from a refrigeration unit.
Doofenshmirtz: What are you telling me for? I'm the guy who installed it.
(Perry's wrist communicator beeps)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. just checking in to see if you noticed any evil activity from Doofenshmirtz, (Perry looks up to Major Monogram is standing right there, with Carl holding up a backboard) there's a-- Monogram out. (He walks away)
Carl, why didn't you tell me he was sitting right there?
Norm: Hello Chloe.
Chloe: Hello Norm.
Norm: So, what's your prime directive?
Chloe: My core competency is dancing.
Norm: What a coincidence! My core competency is being superior, and challenging those whose core competency is dancing.
Chloe: We shall see about that. I accept your challenge. See you an the dance floor.
Norm: See you there. Right after I defrost, because I am so cool. (He walls over to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Well?
Norm: She wants to dance with me, but now I am nervous.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, go on now. You just got to get out of your own head.
Norm: How do I get out of my own head?
Doofenshmirtz: Just get out there on the dance floor, and strut your stuff Normy-G.
Norm: Commencing stuff strutting.
Lawrence: Alright, I want to see everyone out there on the dance floor. Parents, kids, giant robots, sure why not? Let's kick this party into second gear!
Phineas: (In the backyard) Oh, wow that's our cue, time to fire up the P.H.L.A.S.E.R. guys. Are the lenses all clean?
Buford: The lenses are good, but all the blood's rushed to my head.
(Ferb fires up the P.H.L.A.S.E.R., sending a laser into the sky, bouncing it off a cloud, and bathing the partygoers in light. This light cleans one partygoer of his tattoos)
Man: Hey! my tattoos are gone! Now I can finally be an accountant!
(The P.H.L.A.S.E.R. light catches the attention of a few cats who begin to chase it)
Stacy: (After seeing a bunch of cats chasing a laser) Okay, that's like a lot of cats.
(Song: "Robot Love Song")
Chloe: ♪ I see you there, ♪
♪ You're scanning me. ♪
♪ My optic relays detect ♪
♪ A bona fide anomaly. ♪
Norm: ♪ Well, I'm here, squirrel drive online, ♪
♪ As the diodes spike up my metal spine, ♪
♪ I can see where you're coming from, ♪
♪ When your receptors blink, and your servos hum. ♪
♪ So over-clocked, I don't know my name, ♪
♪ There's something wrong in my core mainframe. ♪
♪ Don't you know that I'll take you to a higher place ♪,
♪ As we meet on the floor, and we interface. ♪
Chloe: ♪ I sense a change in my info stream, ♪
♪ From renovated positronic sequencing ♪.
♪ You used to have such an 8-bit feel, ♪
♪ With your screw-on head, and your squirrel wheel. ♪
♪ Now I'm forced to reevaluate, ♪
♪ My old motherboard and my data rate ♪.
♪ I'll move my chassis to a higher place, ♪
♪ As we meet on the floor, and we interface. ♪




Norm: ♪ I'm here, squirrel drive online, ♪
♪ as the diodes spike up my metal spine, ♪
♪ I can see where you're coming from, ♪
♪ when your receptors blink, and your servos hum. ♪
♪ So over-clocked, I don't know my name ♪,
♪ there's something wrong in my core mainframe. ♪


Chloe: ♪ You want to dance with me, ♪
♪ and how it's part of me. ♪
♪ Error, now make your case, ♪


Chloe and Norm: ♪ Don't you know that I'll take you to a higher place,
As we meet on the floor, and we interface. ♪
(Norm's head launches off his body, and crashes into the P.H.L.A.S.E.R. launching it into space)
Phineas: Looks like the finale is ahead of schedule, glasses everyone!
Isabella: Already on it.
(Isabella and the Fireside Girls put safety glasses on the party guests)
Norm: Everyone looks smaller than the usually do from up here. And that is already pretty small, because I am so tall.
(The grand finale begins bathing everybody in light)
Candace: Whatever.
Linda: Ooh, I've got to go and thank the boys.
(Norm's head lands back on his body albeit upside down)
Chloe: Oh, Norm, your performance exceeded my previous computations.
Norm: I had to get out of my own head.
Lawrence: Well, what a phenomenal finale to our finale. Congratulations and cued us to our two winners. And there wasn't even a contest.
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, you were smooth-tastic. Are you going to introduce me to your new girl?
Norm: Why yes, of course. This is--
Rodney: Chloe, what are you doing?
Doofenshmirtz: Rodney. Wait, wait, this is your robot?
Rodney: Come Chloe. Let's get you away from this, rusted Romeo.
(Chloe and Rodney walk away)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh yeah? Well I, I'm too flustered to come up with an insult, so I'll call you later, and give it to you then. Come on Norm.
Norm: Goodbye Chloe. "Parting is such sweet sorrow."
Chloe: That is a reference from Romeo and Juliet, so I shall say "goodnight 'til it be morrow."
Doofenshmirtz: See you don't need her Norm, she's a know it all. Ugh, ooh, look, corndogs!
Linda: (She walks into the backyard) Boys are you here? I just wanted to say-- Phineas! Ferb! You are so busted!
Candace: What!? Get out of the way! Wait! Wait! Wait! Did I hear you just bust Phineas and Ferb?
Linda: I certainly did. (Candace giggles under) What are all my good guest towels doing out here? And they're filthy!
Candace: (Stops giggling) Towels?
Phineas: Oh, sorry mom.
Candace: Towels!?
Phineas: We'll clean them up.
Linda: Yeah, you get right on that. when you're done we'll have beignets.
Candace: So let me get this straight, after everything they've done this summer, you decide to yell at them for a few dirty towels?
Linda: Isn't that enough? (Walks away)
Candace: Way to make a mockery of my lifetime goal Mom. Towels.

End Credits
Chloe: ♪ I sense a change in my info stream, ♪
♪ From renovated positronic sequencing ♪.
♪ You used to have such an 8-bit feel, ♪
♪ With your screw-on head, and your squirrel wheel. ♪
♪ Now I'm forced to reevaluate, ♪
♪ My old motherboard and my data rate ♪.
♪ I'll move my chassis to a higher place, ♪
♪ As we meet on the floor, and we interface. ♪




Norm: ♪ I'm here, squirrel drive online, ♪
♪ as the diodes spike up my metal spine, ♪
♪ I can see where you're coming from, ♪
♪ when your receptors blink, and your servos hum. ♪
♪ So over-clocked, I don't know my name ♪,
♪ there's something wrong in my core mainframe. ♪


Chloe: ♪ You want to dance with me, ♪
♪ and how it's part of me. ♪
♪ Error, now make your case, ♪


Chloe and Norm: ♪ Don't you know that I'll take you to a higher place, ♪
♪ As we meet on the floor, and we interface. ♪



(Scene opens at the Flynn-Fletcher house. Cut to the backyard where Phineas and Ferb are surrounded by lots of leftover parts.)
Phineas: Ferb, we've got a lot of leftover parts from the last time we used leftover parts. There must be something we can do with them, you know, besides hodgepodges or art pieces.
Buford: Whoa, dudes, what's with all the junk in your backyard? It's like an obstacle course back here!
Phineas: That's it! I know what we're gonna do today!
Buford: What'd I say?
Phineas: You said obstacle course, of course!
Buford: Oh, I meant to say chili cook off.
Baljeet: Are you meaning to tell me we have never made an obstacle course this entire summer?
Phineas: Ferb?
Ferb: I'm filled with remorse
That we haven't, of course,
Even thought of building an obstacle course.
Phineas: Then let's build one and make it our new tour de force!
Ferb: That is a plan I can clearly endorse.
Phineas: Of course!
Baljeet: Of course!
Phineas: Of course!
Buford: Of course! I'm puttin' an end to this before it breaks into song! Where's Perry??
(Cut to Agent P falling into a secluded area. He uses a rod to divine the OWCA location on a scale model of Danville, accidentally setting it on fire, and exits but not before extinguishing the fire. He drops into a hole and falls into his lair.)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P. There are pretty suspicious goings-on...going on at the Doofenshmirtz building. We have reports that the building has been rotating all morning, so either he's got something evil up his sleeve, or he's turning it into an expensive romantic restaurant with an impressive view...in which case, I would like a reservation for 6:00 pm. Either way, I'm gonna need you to get over there. (Perry leaves. Monogram looks aside.) Okay, he's gone. One, a-two, a-one-two-three. (Puts on a Major-General's hat and several agents appear and he sings to the tune of "The Major-General's Song" from The Pirates of Penzance.)
♪ I am the very model of a modern Major Monogram ♪
♪ I've information vegetable and animal and hologram ♪
(Cut to the movie theater. The title Gluttony Games is shown on the marquee. A bunch of people, including Stacy and Candace, walk out of the theater.)
Candace: Wow, Gluttony Games is totally bloated with mindless mayhem! And the two girls, they were so brave and fearless!
Stacy: We would make an awesome team, you and me!
Candace: (high fives Stacy) You and me, baby! Of course, we'd have to learn to shoot a bow and arrow, and build a rope bridge...
(Cross-dissolve to the girls walking to the Flynn-Fletcher house, where Candace is still talking, unaware of the big project in the backyard.)
Candace: ...and catch two leaves between two pieces of wax paper and choose matching backpacks and sharpen a hatchet, (opening the gate) and we'll live on nothing but—
Candace and Stacy: Holy cannoli!
Candace: What in the world is going on here?! PHINEAS AND FERB!!!!
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, babies and slightly smaller babies, welcome to the Phineas and Ferb Ultimate Obstacle Course! The first team that makes it all the way to the end (you know, alive and stuff) will win this nifty trophy! So are you ready to get muddy?
Candace: That tears it! Those two are so—
Stacy: Hang on, Candace! We can win this!
Candace: Yeah, we ca— Wait, what?
Stacy: I want that trophy!
Candace: Why?
(Cutaway to Dr. Hirano with Ginger putting up a trophy on display as Stacy watches.)
Dr. Hirano: Very good, Ginger. We'll put it up here with the rest of your awards. I'm...still saving a place for your trophy, Stacy. You know, just in case.
Stacy: Uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh...
(Cut back to Stacy and Candace.)
Stacy: ...hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh... Candace, we'd make an awesome team!
Candace: Alright, I'll do it!
Stacy: For the trophy!
Candace: And for whatever it was you were thinking about just now.
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Inc. A taxi drops off Perry as he watches it rotate. He walks into the revolving door. The building rotates again. A pizza guy runs into the building and bumps into the side. Perry comes out of the elevator and sees the building rotate again in confusion. He knocks on Doof's door.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hmm, I wonder who that could be. (opens the door and gasps) Perry the Platypus? Well, come on in. Wipe your feet if you don't mind. I just mopped the floor. (Perry steps onto the welcome mat, which traps him.) Ha ha! Gotcha! That's what you get for having manners! Hee hee hee! Now, I bet you're wondering why my building has been turning 90 degrees every now and then. Well, that's because I was just testing out my 90-Degree-Turn-inator!! Eh, you like it? Y'know, it turns things. But only 90 degrees at a time. You see, back in Drusselste—y'know what? Just watch this documentary.
(Cut to a black and white newsreel.)
Newsreader: This Week in History! Dateline: 1602. The mayors of Gimmelshtump and Stumblegimp prepare to sign a treaty declaring they are sister cities. However, while reaching for his quill, the Mayor of Gimmelshtump accidentally turned 90 degrees. Since showing your side to another is considered a Stumblegimpian insult, the Mayor of Stumblegimp was forced to follow tradition. (The Mayor of Stumblegimp takes off his shoe and sock and slaps it in the Mayor of Gimmelshtump's face.) And so, war was declared. Gimmelshtump had no choice but to retaliate. The war escalated and raged on for 50 years. Finally, the only way to end this senseless feud was for the Mayor of Gimmelshtump to perform the Stumblegimpian humiliating Dance of Contrition.
(Song: "Humiliating Stumblegimp Dance of Contrition")
♪ If you ever insult a Stumblegimpian ♪
♪ By turning slightly to the side, ♪
♪ You can vin back zeir trust in ze end. ♪
♪ Now place six chickens on your head ♪
♪ Then you try to eat ze featherbed ♪
♪ Put a jelly donut into your pants. ♪
♪ Und dance! ♪
♪ Write a letter to a chimpanzee, ♪
♪ Paint a portrait underneath the sea, ♪
♪ Move to France and refuse to speak French. ♪
You think I vill speak French?! I vill not speak French!
Nein!
♪ Juggle piglets with an angry cook, ♪
♪ Split an atom in a breakfast nook, ♪
♪ Zen he vill know you're a mensch. ♪
♪ Now go sit down on zis bench! ♪
'Cause you're tired!!
Newsreader: And so, the Mayor of Stumblegimp was appeased. And, once again, all was right between the two cities...or was it? The End!
(End newsreel.)
Doofenshmirtz: And the Stumblegimp Humiliating Dance of Contrition is just as much a tradition now as it was in the '40s...when this newsreel was made about the 1600s. You see, Perry the Platypus, my brother, the Mayor's gonna meet the present day Mayor of Stumblegimp. And I plan to zap Roger with my 90-Degree-Turn-inator. It will turn him 90 degrees, which will insult Mayor...uh...Whatshisname. Something with waffles. He'll have to sing that whole song, and when the people of Danville see him eat a featherbed or put a donut in his pants, he'll be forced to step down as mayor and I will step into his place, 100% donut-pant-free! Unless, you know, something like last week happens again.
(Cut back to the backyard. The teams for the obstacle course are assembled, with the Candace and Stacy on the Red Team, Isabella and Ginger on the Green Team, and Buford and Baljeet on the Black & Blue Team.)
Phineas: And finally, our third team, Candace and Stacy!
(The crowd cheers. )
Candace: We are so ready!
(Stacy looks aside and sees her little sister with Isabella. Ginger looks back and smiles and gives a thumbs up. Stacy makes the "I'm watching you" gesture.)
Isabella: What was that about?
Ginger: Oh, that's our secret code for "I love you, sis"...I think.
Phineas: Good luck, contestants! And watch out for giant worms! On your marks...
Candace: Wait, what?
Phineas: Get set...
Candace: Did he say, "Giant worms"?
Phineas: Go!
(The platforms the teams are standing on lower and they fall into their respective colored ducky-floats and slide down some water. The Black & Blue team get swallowed by the giant worm that Phineas warned about.)
Buford: Aaaah! Giant worm!!!
Phineas: Well, it looks like Buford and Baljeet are out of the race. Sorry, guys. You know what they say: Giant worms can do whatever they want.
(The remaining teams fall down a pinball-themed waterfall complete with appropriate sound effects. The teams get washed up on a beach.)
Phineas: Both remaining teams have made it to the beach! Nice job, ladies, but you may wanna get to cover.
Candace: Cover?
Phineas: (activating a water balloon launcher) Fire!
Isabella: Incoming!
Stacy: Water balloons!
Phineas: Just look at them go!
Stacy: Get off the beach! Get off the beach!!
(Candace and Stacy get hit by two water balloons and end up lying on their backs.)
(Cut back to D.E.I. where Doof is rolling his inator on the balcony.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, yes! The horse-drawn coach has arrived and Mayor...Wafflesomething is walking up to Roger.
(Cut to City Hall where Roger is greeting his visitor.)
Roger: Heheh, Mayor Chickenen, it is so good to finally meet you.
Doofenshmirtz: Chicken and waffles! That's why I had "waffles" stuck in my head. That was it. (walks up to the inator) And...now! (fires the inator)
Roger: (holding out his hand) It is indeed a rare pleasure to— (He gets zapped and rotates 90 degrees east.)
Mayor Chickenen: Huh? What is the meaning of this? I will have to declare war now!
Roger: Maybe not. Pstt!
Melanie: What happened?
Roger: Get the Dance of Contrition team out here pronto!
(Melanie whistles.)
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, baby! It worked! And now for the humiliatioooonnnn!
(We hear disco music in the background and everyone does a more contemporary dance style.)
♪ Dance of contrition ♪
♪ Humiliatin' dance of contrition ♪
♪ (Everybody dance!) ♪
♪ Dance of contrition ♪
♪ Humiliatin' dance of contrition ♪
♪ (Everybody dance!) ♪
♪ YEAH! ♪
♪ (Everybody dance!) ♪
♪ Yeah-ee-yeah! ♪
♪ (Everybody dance!) ♪
♪ Dance of contrition ♪
♪ Humiliatin' dance of contrition ♪
♪ (Everybody dance!) ♪
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz seemingly holding up a pair of binoculars.)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, th-th-th-that's not the Stumblegimp Humiliating Dance of Contrition! (he lowers his hands to reveal there's nothing in them and sighs) One day, I gotta ask Norm what he did with my binoculars.
(Cut back to the obstacle course.)
Phineas: It looks like Isabella and Ginger are way out front!
Candace: Hurry, Stace! They're getting away!
Phineas: Watch your step, ladies! That's mud down there! Baljeet's suggestion!
(Cut to Buford and Baljeet still inside the giant worm.)
Buford: Really?
Baljeet: I knew we would not make it that far.
(The worm chomps and swallows them.)
Buford: Well, not with an attitude like that!
Candace: We'll see who gets mud in his face, Smart Guy! (She starts to step on a platform, but it moves and she falls downs screaming and lands with a splat.)
Phineas: Good thing mud's good for the skin!
(Cut to Candace in the mud.)
Candace: Blehhhhh...
Phineas: (next to a giant fan) Let's dry 'em off, Ferb!
(The giant fan turns on. Cut to Team Green.)
Isabella: Hold on to something, Ginger! We're almost there!
(Cut to muddy Candace. She spits out some mud and the mud gets blown off.)
Candace: Hey, he's right, my skin feels so soft. Come on, Stace!
(Candace and Stacy jump onto a platform, then try to jump onto the next one before almost being blown away by the fan. They hold onto a pipe, which lifts them into the air.)
Phineas: Whoa! Nice hang time!
(Team Red lands onto a wooden suspension bridge. They see Team Green blowing in the wind.)
Isabella: I regret nothing!
Candace: That puts us in the lead! Woohoo! (A pie flies into her face.) Pie? Really?
(Dozens of pies splat into them making them go backwards. Team Green runs ahead.)
Phineas: And Isabella and Ginger take the lead!
(Cut back to City Hall.)
Mayor Chickenen: Wonderful! The new improved Dance of Contrition always makes me want to shake a leg!
Roger: Fantastic.
(Doof runs down in between them.)
Doofenshmirtz: Whoa whoa whoa! That was not nearly humiliating enough! Where was the part about bowing and pulling your shirt up over your face and juggling piglets? Where were the piglets?!
Mayor Chickenen: Oh, we haven't done that since the '40s when we made that newsreel about the 1600s. Things have changed. (He hums and dances.)
Doofenshmirtz: So what's your point?
(Cut back to the obstacle course where Team Green rolls on a log shaped like corn.)
Phineas: We're nearing the finish line, and here comes Team Ginger and Isabella, with Candace and Stacy in hot pursuit! And now, ladies, who's up for some popcorn?
(Some butter gets sprayed, and flamethrowers appear popping the corn. Team Green fall off the log and land in the mud.)
Candace: We're the last ones standing!
Candace and Stacy: Yay!
Stacy: Woohoo!
(A finish line banner lowers.)
Phineas: Candace and Stacy win! (A giant gorilla hand appears out of nowhere and slaps them off the log.) Sorry. Forgot about the giant gorilla hand. My bad. Remember, everyone's a winner, but only one team gets a trophy!
(A trophy gets lowered down and Stacy grabs it.)
Candace: Stacy, we won!
Ginger: Congratulations, Stacy!
Stacy: Ha! Now I'm like you! I have a trophy!
Ginger: But, Stacy, I won all those trophies just trying to impress you.
Stacy: Really?
Ginger: Yeah! You're the coolest big sister a girl could ever have! How can I compete?
Stacy: Well, I am pretty cool.
(The giant worm with Buford and Baljeet still inside appears and Buford steals the trophy away.)
Buford: I'll take that! Giant worms can do whatever they want! (They disappear.)
Candace: (stands up) That does it, it's busting time!
(Candace stomps off in anger, leaving Stacy, Ginger and Isabella shocked.)
(Cut to the kitchen where muddy Candace walks through the door.)
Candace: (in a stern voice) Mother? May I please speak with you?
Linda: (flatly) Oh, boy...
(Cut back to City Hall where Doofenshmirtz gets zapped and turns 90 degrees east.)
Mayor Chickenen: Oh, how rude! (Takes off his shoe and sock and slaps the sock onto Doofenshmirtz.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, give it a rest! (grunts) I must've left it in random fire mode.
(Cut to the balcony, where Perry, still trapped in the welcome mat, loosens a thread with his teeth and escapes, and jumps up and hits the self-destruct button. It fires and explodes. Cut to an airplane.)
Pilot: Uh, welcome to Flight J2261 to New York. (The ray bounces off the plane, which rotates 90 degrees.) Uh, hey, who wants to go to Alabama?
(Cut to the obstacle course. The ray hits a camera, which rotates and hits a beam carrying the jumbotron with the image of Phineas and Ferb resting under the tree. The screen lowers to the ground)
(Cut to the kitchen, throughout this, the screen outside the window lowers down, obscuring the window's entire view of the obstacle course. Candace and Linda barely notice)
Candace: Mom! (closes eyes) Take a look outside the window!
Linda: Candace, what's gotten into you?
Candace: Look!!!
Linda: (turns around and sees the image of Phineas and Ferb under the tree outside) Hi, boys!
Candace: (her eyes open) What...? (looks out the window) But-but -- !
Linda: Really, Candace? This is getting old. (walks away)
Candace: But....but......but....

End credits
♪ Write a letter to a chimpanzee, ♪
♪ Paint a portrait underneath the sea, ♪
♪ Move to France and refuse to speak French. ♪
You think I vill speak French?! I vill not speak French!
Nein!
♪ Juggle piglets with an angry cook, ♪
♪ Split an atom in a breakfast nook, ♪
♪ Zen he vill know you're a mensch. ♪
♪ Now go sit down on zis bench! ♪
'Cause you're tired!!



Contents[show]
Act I
(Fade up on the opening title sequence. A light cracks out from the ground making a bigger crack. To heavy metal rock music, the opening logo rises from the ground. Zoom out on Phineas and Ferb wailing on their electric guitars as the logo rises up. When they finish, Spidey drops hanging upside down from a web.)
Spider-Man: Aunt May, Phineas and Ferb are making a crossover!
Phineas: Yeah we are!
(They play the last chord. Cut to black.)

(Open up on outer space where Phineas, Ferb and the gang are surfing the asteroid belt.)
(Song: "Surfin' Asteroids")
♪ Grab a spaceboard and catch a wave, ♪
♪ The asteroid ocean is quite a rave. ♪
♪ We're gonna zoom-zoom-zoom through the stratosphere ♪
♪ There's a reason that they call it the final frontier. ♪
♪ Shoot the tube into the void, ♪
♪ We're surfin' asteroids! ♪
♪ Take my hand, we're gonna rock and roll, ♪
♪ Past a little red dwarf and a big black hole; ♪
♪ So grab a friend and come right over, ♪
♪ Pretty soon, this party's gonna supernova! (Supernova!) (Supernova!) ♪
♪ Past a big blue comet and a purple quasar, ♪
♪ Just need a pressure suit and a surf guitar ♪
♪ Just shoot the tube into the void ♪
♪ We're surfin' asteroids! ♪
♪ (We're surfin' those asteroids) ♪
♪ Surfin' asteroids! ♪
♪ (We're surfin' those asteroids) ♪
♪ Surfin' asteroids! ♪
Isabella: That was awesome!
Phineas: Yeah! The cosmic rays we collected through our satellite dish made a great power source for our surfboards.
Baljeet: Well, I, for one, need to get back to the space station.
Phineas: All right.
Buford: You know, these suits are equipped with—
Baljeet: I do not want to do it in the suit!
(The gang surf their way into a giant space station shaped like Phineas and Ferb's heads. Inside the space station, the gang have their suits off are talking with a floating screen with Irving on it.)
Irving: Hi, guys! How are the asteroid waves?
Phineas: They were totally crankin', dude!
(In the backyard where Irving is acting as mission control.)
Irving: (laughing) He called me "dude"!
(Cut back to Phineas)
Phineas: We're about to take the module down. Are we clear for landing?
Irving: One moment. (He gets up)
(Irving chases a butterfly off the ground.)
Irving: All clear! Hey, where's Perry?
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪

(Inside the building Agent P is already trapped.)
Doofenshmirtz: Struggle all you want, Perry the Platypus, you're not getting out of that! It's hydraulic! I don't know if you're aware of this, but my brother, Roger, is the mayor. (Perry just gives him a look indicating that he was, in fact, aware of it.) Alright, I may have touched upon the subject from time to time, but, y'know, I figured why not mention it again just for clarity? Anyway, that job gives him all these cool mayoral powers. So I created the Power-Drain-inator to drain all his powers into this canister, and then I, Heinz Doofenshmirtz, get to wield them! Just think, I will have the power to raise taxes, pass legislation and even cut the ceremonial ribbon at openings! Where I'll finally be able to use (He produces a pair of giant scissors from behind his back) these! You like them? I-I got 'em at a garage sale. (He leans the scissors onto a hydraulic pump, which leaks and releasing Perry from his trap.) Ah, see? Th-th-that's one of those hydraulic lines that, uh, goes to your— (Perry flings himself at Doofenshmirtz, who falls backwards, and then takes the inator, smashing it to pieces.) Aw, come on!!! One kick and you destroy my inator? Right? W-W-And what? You're just gonna thwart and run? I thought this was going to be a special extended episode! Curse you, Perry the Platypus! (A piece of the broken inator zaps up to the sky.) Aaah! Uh-oh.
(The beam hits the satellite on top of Phineas and Ferb's space station, it bounces back, headed towards New York City. At the Statue of Liberty, a caption is seen saying "New York: Moments earlier...")
Hot Dog Vendor: Hey, Vinnie, the usual?
Vinnie: Yeah, same old, same old.
(A building sign falls to the ground. We hear a generic hip hop song playing in the background Spider-Man web slings his way around.)
(Song: "My Streets")
♪ Alright, smart guy, think you must have made a mistake ♪
♪ But I'm feelin' kinda generous I'll give you a break ♪
New Yorker: Go get 'em, Spider-Man!
Spider-Man: Woo!! (He gets splashed by a fire hydrant) I didn't know this was gonna be a pool party. I woulda brought my trunks!
(Cut to another part of New York, where Thor, Iron Man, and the Hulk are battling with Venom and Whiplash. Iron Man zaps Venom. Whiplash whips a fire escape. Hulk attempts to run at him but gets trapped by the fire escape remains. He roars his way out of them and pulls a lamppost from the ground, flinging it at Whiplash, who takes a couple of pieces of it and flings them at Iron Man, who zaps Whiplash. Venom gets a jump on Hulk, who smashes him. Thor flies into Venom. Spidey finally arrives.)
Iron Man: Oh, hey, kid! Glad you could make it!
Spider-Man: (while webbing Venom) I'm just fashionably late.
(Hulk throws the tied up Venom and Thor hammers Whiplash. Two big doors open revealing MODOK riding some big vehicle with Red Skull at the wheel.)
Iron Man: Back off, fellas! If that thing firing anti-matter blasts, it's gonna pack a big punch!
Hulk: I pack a bigger punch!
(The anti-matter blasts into Hulk.)
Red Skull: MODOK, take zem all out!
(Spidey flings a web at MODOK raveling his hands.)
MODOK: Fool! Your webs cannot stop my mind! (He laughs)
(One of the guns fires anti-matter at Spidey, but misses.)
Spider-Man: Missed me!
(Iron Man fires a blast from his chest, breaking the wheels of the vehicle. Thor hammers the vehicle and Hulk lifts it up and flings it into the Hudson River.)
Iron Man: That's it for you creeps!
Spider-Man: Ooh ooh! Can I web 'em up?
(The -inator beam blasts the heroes.)
Red Skull: Let's go! (The villains all flee but Red Skull bumps into MODOK.) Move, you big tin schnitzel!!!
Thor: What was that?
Spider-Man: I dunno. But they're getting away! (He attempts to climb a wall, but falls.) Whoa! Well, that's new.
(Iron Man's suit powers down.)
Iron Man: Something's wrong. I can't move!
Thor: Sit tight! Mighty Mjolnir will bring them down! (He attempts to throw the hammer, but it crashes into the ground.) My strength, it's gone!
Hulk: I'll go. (Hulk tries to smash, but nothing happens.)
Iron Man: Somehow our powers have been drained. I need to get to JARVIS and figure this out. Let's get back to S.H.I.E.L.D. (The heroes all walk away, except for Iron Man who attempts to move, but remains immobile.) Hey, guys! My power's down and my suit's frozen! Could somebody get me a hand?
Spider-Man: Hulk, can you carry him?
Hulk: My power's gone, too.
Iron Man: Oh, for— Well, can somebody find a furniture dolly?
(Back in Danville the gang are being lowered onto a drill-like dome.)
Buford: That was the best thing we've done this morning!
(They lower into the ground and the dome disappears. Candace makes her perfectly timed busting entrance with her Mom.)
Candace: Mom! Hurry! Here! Look!
Phineas: Hi, Mom!
Linda: Hi, kids!
Candace: Why aren't you in space?
Buford: Eh, we got hungry.
Linda: Oh, that's my cue! I'll make you guys some snacks before I leave!
(At the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier.)
Spider-Man: Well, this stinks! Without my spider-powers, I'm just a guy in a body stocking!
Thor: And I had to leave Mjolnir in the street!
(Cutaway to New York where a female traffic cop is giving a ticket to Mjolnir for standing at a "No Stopping Anytime" sign. Cut back to the Helicarrier.)
Thor: It just became too heavy.
(Hulk comes in carrying Iron Man on a dolly.)
Iron Man: At least you guys aren't locked inside this metal suit. Man, do I regret having that second cup of coffee this morning. Now we have to find out where that beam came from.
Nick Fury: Danville. Danville, USA.
Spider-Man: Have you been standing there this whole time?
Nick Fury: Yes. Yes I have. (He walks to a screen which shows the inator beam hitting the space station satellite) The beam that hit you originated from the Tri-State Area, bounced off a space station satellite dish, and hit you in New York City during your fight.
Spider-Man: Is that one of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s?
Nick Fury: No. It's theirs.
(The space station image fades to Phineas and Ferb's images.)
Spider-Man: Man, that kid's got a weird-shaped head.
Iron Man: (jumping) Hey! Hey! Guys, I can't see with the— (falls down) Little help here?
Hulk: I got him.
(Norm is busy vacuuming up the debris from Doofenshmirtz's inator)
Doofenshmirtz: Make sure you get all these little pieces over here, too. No no no, y-you're missing the big one.
Norm: Okey-dokey!
Doofenshmirtz: Y'know, Norm, the Power-Drain-inator did get one shot off before it died. I wonder if it hit anything.
Gordon Gutsofanemu: (on television) Dateline: New York City. A mysterious ray has drained the power from four of our beloved superheroes. We now return you to Horse in a Bookcase, already in progress.
Doofenshmirtz: That was me! Th-Th-That was me! I drained the power from those superheroes! Winning! Ooh, ooh, I should update my evil blog on the L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. site! (sits down at the computer and types) OMG!! I drained all the powers from a group of superheroes in New York , and those powers belong to me now! Happy Emoticon (Typed out as >:D >:D >:D) And send! Norm, let's get the powers out of the canister so I can start wielding them! I-I can't wait to fly and run fast and carry a big hammer around for no reason!
Norm: Uh, sir, I hate to be the bearer of empty canisters, but this canister is empty.
Doofenshmirtz: What?! So I don't have the powers?
Norm: Time to blog a retraction, I guess.
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, y'know, I'm not gonna change it. Everyone exaggerates on the Internet.
(Cut to Red Skull's lair.)
Red Skull: There vas a slight miscalculation. It becomes clearer upon seeing zis footage.
Whiplash: That is more than a slight miscalculation, Red Skull. It's a major mistake!
Venom: We could have destroyed the heroes once and for all!
Red Skull: Enough! It doesn't change ze fact zat ze heroes are now powerless!
Whiplash: Well, what could have happened to their powers?
Red Skull: MODOK?
MODOK: I, MODOK, the perfect combination of human intellect and machine, have interfaced with all of the digital information stored on the vast network, the World Wide Web!
Whiplash: I can do the same thing with my phone. Plus I got free roaming!
Venom: Nice!
MODOK: As I was saying, I have found some puny inferior human known as Doofenshmirtz claiming that he has drained the heroes of all their superpowers.
Red Skull: Hmm, Doofenshmirtz. Zat sounds Drusselshteinian. I have a cousin who married a Drusselshteinian. She is dead to me!! So, who is zis Doofenshmirtz?
MODOK: I'm projecting his image now.
(Doof's image appears.)
Red Skull: He is beautifully grotesque.
Whiplash: All hideous and deformed.
Venom: He must have some backstory.
Red Skull: Vere can we find zis sideshow freak?
MODOK: (showing an image of D.E.I.) He's in the Tri-State Area, Danville to be precise!
Red Skull: Danville, eh? Gentlemen, it looks like we're going on an evil road trip.
MODOK: Ooh, shotgun!
Red Skull: YOU DO NOT FIT IN ZE SHOTGUN POSITION!!!!
(Cut to the backyard.)
Phineas: Well, that was fun, and it's only 10:30. What else should we do today?
Linda: Oh, hey, kids. I'm gonna be taking a walking tour of the Tri-State Area today. (her phone rings) Yes, Candace, you're in charge.
Candace: Whoopee!!
Linda: Bye, kids.
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry? Oh, there he is!
(Cut back to D.E.I. A huge vehicle lowers onto the balcony. The supervillains exit from the door. Venom hisses. Cut to his foot to reveal that he stepped into a Perry the Platypus trapped. He gets his foot out of it.)
Computer: Platypus trap engaged.
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Perry the Platyp—You're not Perry the Platypus! Who are you guys?
Red Skull: Zis is Vhiplash, zis is Venom, and I am Red Skull.
Doofenshmirtz: Yes. Yes, you are. Y'know, you really should use sunblock. Y-You're burned down to the bone.
MODOK: I am MODOK, and you are the one they call "Doofenshmirtz".
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, yeah. That's what they sing at the end of the birthday song...Ah, well, y'know, at least they...would have if...anybody ever sang....that song to me. Anyway...Hey, the floating head and little arms thing. I-I tried that back in the '90s.
(Cutaway to Doofenshmirtz as a floating head with little arms.)
Doofenshmirtz: I'll rule the Tri-State Areaaaa! (bumps into a wall)
(End cutaway.)
Doofenshmirtz: I could never maneuver out the front door, but I see you're pretty mobile. W-What are you guys doing here?
Red Skull: Shos your davices, Doofenshmirtz!
Doofenshmirtz: "Shess-so-davices?" I-Is that Latin?
Red Skull: Show us your devices.
Doofenshmirtz: I-I-I-I-I'm still not gettin' it. Anyone?
Whiplash: I have no idea.
Red Skull: (grunts) Show...us...your...devices!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, you want to see my inators! Man...Man, you've got quite an accent there! Alright, (walks up to an inator) here's what I'm workin' on now. Behold, the Slothinator! It will give me the powers of a sloth...which are super-slowness and super-leaf-eating.
Red Skull: (to MODOK) Are you sure zis is ze right guy?
MODOK: MODOK is infallible!
Red Skull: Then he must be toying with us. Playing us for fools! He is even more diabolical than we thought!
Doofenshmirtz: (holding up a branch) Seriously, I'll be able to eat this whole branch, but...y'know, like, slowly.
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house. The doorbell rings.)
Phineas: Ferb, are you expecting someone?
(Ferb opens the door to reveal the superheroes.)
Ferb: Not them.

Act II
(Open up on the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Spider-Man: (offscreen) Aren't you a little young to be stealing superheroes' superpowers?
(Cut to the kitchen)
Phineas: Yes. Yes, we would be, Spider-Man, if we actually did it. But like I said, I don't think we did.
Iron Man: You can't see it, but I have a rather severe look of disappointment on my face.
(Isabella walks up to Iron Man with a ladder and a juice box.)
Isabella: This'll turn that tin frown upside-down!
Thor: Juice in a box? We have nothing like this in Asgard.
Hulk: (grunting) Straw cannot penetrate!
Spider-Man: Hey, hey, hey! Calm blue ocean. (taking the juice box) Let me take care of that for ya, buddy.
Iron Man: Thanks, Isabella. Well, the power-siphoning ray originated from the Tri-State Area. And I was thinking you guys would know something about it since it bounced off your space station.
Phineas: Are you sure it was our space station?
Hulk: It was shaped like your head.
Phineas: Well, that sounds like ours, but we don't know anything about a power-siphoning ray.
Iron Man: I was afraid of that. Well, the first thing we gotta do is get our powers back.
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna d—
Candace: (coming down the stairs) Alright, boys and girls, listen up, Mom's on a walking tour of Danville and Dad's tinkering in the basement, so I'm in charge. That means no shenanigans! Hey, Spider-Man. So I'll be over at Stacy's all...d-d-d-daaay???!!!
Spider-Man: 'Sup?
Thor: Greetings, fair young maiden.
Candace: It's super...heroes...in...duh...our...kitchen!
Isabella: Candace is gonna lie down for a while.
(Isabella leads Candace out.)




Candace:
Heroes...
Thor...
Hulk...
Iron Man...
In...
Our...
Kitchen...
Uh...


Isabella:
That's it.
Just breathe.
They're only superheroes.


Phineas: Looks like you guys have a fan.
Iron Man: Oh, boy. (Tips over and an inexplicable cat is heard screeching.)
Thor: And it's probably good she didn't see that.
Iron Man: I'm okay.
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?
(Cut to Agent P's lair where Agent P walks up to his chair.)
Major Monogram: Have a seat, Agent P. (cut to reveal Monogram on an old black and white TV set) Due to the gravity of your mission today, the gentleman on the big screen will be addressing you (Wide shot to reveal Fury on the big screen) while I use this old TV monitor Carl found in the basement.
Carl: (offscreen) Sorry, sir, I couldn't get the split-screen to work.
Major Monogram: Anyway, this is director Nick Fury of S-H-I-E-L-D.
Nick Fury: That's S.H.I.E.L.D.! It's an acronym.
Major Monogram: Oh, like "OWCA".
Nick Fury: Yes, except it's cool. Now, where is your agent, Major?
Major Monogram: He's sitting right there.
Nick Fury: You mean behind the platypus?
Major Monogram: No, that's Secret Agent Perry the Platypus.
Nick Fury: Is he some kind of super-platypus with super-platypus powers?
Major Monogram: (suddenly wearing an eyepatch) Uh...no.
Nick Fury: Does he have some kind of robotic platypus exoskeleton?
Major Monogram: He, uh, he has a fedora.
Nick Fury: Hey, wait a minute, were you wearing that eyepatch when we started?!
Major Monogram: Oh, this? Uh, yeah. It's, uh, doctor's orders. I have a stye.
Carl: (offscreen) He thinks it makes him look cool.
Major Monogram: No I don't.
Nick Fury: I'm going to proceed as if this were going really well. Agent P, Iron Man, Hulk, Thor and Spider-Man have lost their superpowers to a mysterious power-siphoning ray, which we believe originated somewhere in the Danville area. We fear a group of supervillains are closing in. We need you to monitor the situation and report back. (Monogram is now wearing eyepatches on both eyes.) Francis, I'm gonna need you to—Now what are you doing?
Carl: (offscreen) He thinks two eyepatches make him look twice as cool.
Major Monogram: I don't know what you're talking about.
(Fury groans.)
(Cut to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Welcome to my Hall of Inators. Ah, here's a good one. This is my Oatmeal-to-Porridge-inator. I know. It's a fine distinction. Don't get me started. And here's my Multi-Helio-Tactical-Baboon-Glom-inator. I-I-I think that one is self-explanatory. Oh, and, uh, here's my Waffle-inator, and the Junk-Mail-inator...
Red Skull: I do not understand. Zees machines are useless. What is wrong wis zis man?
Whiplash: Maybe he is a misunderstood genius.
Red Skull: Or maybe he is a perfectly understood idiot.
Doofenshmirtz: And, finally, my Disintegrator-inator. Pretty impressive, huh?
Red Skull: Vere is ze machine zat took away the powers of the heroes?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, my Power-Drain-inator! Ooh, that was a cool one! And it was...destroyed by my nemesis, Perry the Platypus. You just missed him.
Red Skull: Perry ze Platypus? Is he a super-soldier platypus?
Doofenshmirtz: No.
Venom: Was he bitten by a radioactive platypus?
Doofenshmirtz: No, he's, uh, just a regular crime-fighting platypus.
Red Skull: It is no matter! You will rebuild ze machine!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, so we're workin' together now! Great! I'll be the leader! I've always wanted an evil entourage.
Whiplash: Let's destroy him.
Red Skull: Nein. Let him think he is in charge. Ven he has exceeded his usefulness, ve vill give him to MODOK to destroy.
Whiplash: Hey, where is MODOK?
(Cut to reveal MODOK stuck behind the door.)
MODOK: D'oh! Curse you, Danville, town of small doors!
Doofenshmirtz: Listen, before I rebuild the machine, I've got some errands to run. You guys should come with. (Red Skull hisses) Is your head gonna burst into flames or am I thinking of somebody else?
(Cut to the backyard where Phineas and Ferb are standing before the superheroes and the rest of the gang in front of a small shed with the sign "S.H.E.D." on it.)
Phineas: Ladies and gentlemen...and Hulk, allow me to unveil our Secret Hideout for Emergency Defects. Or S.H.E.D. for short.
Iron Man: I think we're gonna need something a little...bigger.
Phineas: Oh, the rustic exterior's a facade. Wait'll you see the inside!
(They go inside S.H.E.D. to reveal it is much larger on the inside.)
Iron Man: Oh, man! You guys are good!
Ferb: Just a little British sci-fi technology.
Thor: Iron Man, looks like someone raided your armory.
Phineas: Oh, you like that, huh? This is The Beak Suit Mark 2. We're still working on the waterproofing so we can't take it out in the rain.
Iron Man: You know, Stark Industries offers summer internships.
Phineas: Thanks, but this summer's pretty packed.
Iron Man: Apparently.
Phineas: (handing some cards to the gang and the superheroes) And these are your S.H.E.D. key card IDs. They'll get you into all areas of the compound.
Spider-Man: Ooh! And they're laminated!
(Song: "Free" (instrumental))
Candace: (entering with a comic book) Um, hi. Heh. Would you guys read my fan-fiction? It's a story where Thor and Hulk decide to learn ice skating and—
Spider-Man: I'm sorry, but we're not allowed to accept unsolicited material.
Isabella: Candace, I didn't know you were a fangirl.
Candace: Oh, sure. From way back. It started 'cause I had to do a lot of research to get up to speed for the Ducky Momo superhero crossover event.
(Cutaway to a Japanese promo.)
(Song: "J-Pop (Welcome to Tokyo)" (instrumental))
Japanese Announcer: Quack quack Ducky Momo-san Sūpāhīrō desu!
(End cutaway.)
Phineas: Okay, superheroes. We have to get to work building a device that will restore your powers.
Candace: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! Hehehehehehehe!
(Cut to around Danville. Doofenshmirtz and the villains go around town to baroque pop music, such as jaywalking.)
(Song: "My Evil Buddies and Me")
♪ Steppin' out with my brand new crew, ♪
♪ Nobody's gonna tell us what we can't do ♪
♪ Or where we can go, or what we can see ♪
♪ In this town everyone will listen to me. ♪
♪ My evil buddies and me! ♪
(Unnamed Pop Trio: ♪ Shoop doo be doo doop! ♪)
♪ Me and my evil friends! ♪
♪ (Shoop doo be doo doop doop doo!) ♪
♪ When we're off together wreaking havoc, ♪
♪ The fun just never ends. ♪
♪ We're steain' coins from wishin' wells ♪
♪ We're cleanin' clocks and ringin' bells ♪
♪ We're a rovin' pack of ne'er-do-wells, you see, ♪
♪ My evil buddies and me! ♪
♪ (Shoop doo be doo doop doop doo be doop! ♪
♪ Shoop doo be doo doop doop doo be doop!) ♪
♪ My evil buddies and me! ♪
♪ My evil entourage! ♪
♪ If you see us out carousing, ♪
♪ You better stay in your garage. ♪
♪ We're perpetratin' misdemeanors, ♪
♪ We're stealin' bags from vacuum cleaners, ♪
♪ We're the jerks who stole all those wieners from that guy. ♪
♪ My evil buddies and I! ♪
♪ (Shoop doo be doo doop doop doo be doo! ♪
♪ Shoop doo be doo doop!) ♪
♪ My evil buddies and I! ♪
(Cut back to S.H.E.D.)
Phineas: Until we find out what happened to your actual powers, this machine should be able to replicate them temporarily. Everyone in position and we'll start calibrating!
Candace: Let's get our hero on!
Phineas: Just a minute, Candace. We all set?
Ferb: All set. Just as soon as I—
Candace: Great! All set!
(Candace pushes the red button.)
Ferb: ...lock down the power assignments and reverse polarity.
Phineas: Candace, what did you do?!
Candace: Uh-oh.
(The machine begins to rumble and then explodes.)
Phineas: Are you guys okay?
Thor: By Odin's beard, I feel invigorated! (Jumps up high)
Candace: See? It worked! Hmm?
Phineas: Well, not exactly. Look.
(Cut to reveal Thor sticking to the ceiling a la Spidey.)
Thor: Something is not right.
(Cut to the Googolplex Mall. The villains go down the down escalator while Doofenshmirtz goes down the up escalator.)
Doofenshmirtz: Woo! Oh, boy, that was great! Hey, I've got an idea, let's go get some ice cream and spoil our dinner! I mean, who's gonna tell us no?
Whiplash: That's it! I've had it! We're wasting our time! (takes out his whips and whips a Ducky Momo kiosk) We need to bring the heroes to us!
(The kiosk smashes to pieces leaving several patrons to run for cover.)
Kiosk Girl: Well...
(Cut back to S.H.E.D.)
Phineas: Something's gone terribly wrong, Candace! You've swapped all their powers. (Cut to Thor wall crawling.) Obviously, Thor's got Spider-Man's powers. (Cut to Spidey lifting up something heavy.) Spider-Man got Hulk's powers.
Spider-Man: Yeah, I could get used to this!
Baljeet: I-I have a fear of heights. Could you please put us down?
Phineas: Iron Man must have Thor's powers.
Candace: Well, at least he can move now.
Phineas: Everyone has new superpowers except Hulk. He must have Iron Man's powers. But without the suit, there's not much there.
Hulk: I am feeling entrepreneurial.
Phineas: At least his vocabulary's improved.
Iron Man: So give me the hammer. What do I do? I just stick out my hand, right? Come on, baby, come to papa!
Thor: That is not how it works.
Iron Man: Whadaya mean? I got your powers.
Thor: Wielding Mjolnir is about worthiness, not power.
Iron Man: Really?
Thor: It's a fine distinction, but an important one.
Iron Man: Potato, potahto.
(pause)
Thor: I do not know what that means.
Iron Man: Okay, nevermind. What about the lightning? How do I control that?
Thor: Actually, that only works with the hammer.
Iron Man: What about flying? I've seen you fly.
Thor: Well, yes. But not without the—
Iron Man: Not without the hammer. Right.
Phineas: This is a disaster, Candace!
Candace: Look, it was an accident! But I can still help! I know that the villains will—
Phineas: No!!! You don't know!! The entire Tri-State Area, and, possibly, the world is at stake here! Honestly, Candace, if you don't know what you're doing, keep your hands off the machinery!
Candace: Well, then, maybe I should just leave!
Phineas: Yeah! Maybe you should!
(Candace exits sadly.)
(Cut to three television screens with the words "RELEVANT NEWS BROADCAST" on them.)
Gordon Gutsofanemu: Alert! Alert! Relevant news broadcast intercepted! (The gang and the heroes walk up to the TVs.) This just in: Disaster in Danville! Horse in a Bookcase is cancelled after a nineteeen-year run.  Also, (Image of the Googolplex Mall appears on screen.) chaos at the Googolplex Mall! (Image of Venom, Whiplash and Red Skull in the mall appears on screen.) An evil entourage of three supervillains (file photo of Doof appears on screen) and what appears to be a pharmacist (image of MODOK appears on screen) and a giant chicken egg with a face are bustin' up the place somethin' fierce!
Thor: We are needed!
Phineas: But you can't! Your powers! They're not fixed yet! We just need more time.
Iron Man: I know, Phineas, but we're heroes. This is what we do.
(They leave.)
Phineas: Wait, can we help?
Iron Man: Not unless you can fly.
(Phineas and Ferb look aside. Cut to the Beak suit.)
Phineas: Well, it's not raining! (Fist bumps Ferb.)
(Cut to above the Tri-State Area. The Beak flies up taking the heroes with him.)
The Beak: Bacaw! Woohoo!!
(Cut to the Googolplex Mall, where the villains are causing all sorts of terror.)
Red Skull: This should get their attention. (Evil laughter)
(The heroes and the Beak appear in a crack in the mall.)
Spider-Man: Looks like somebody left the door open!
Iron Man: Alright, gang, it's showtime! Everybody ready?
Spider-Man: I feel pretty good.
Hulk: I'd feel better with a metal suit.
The Beak: Sorry, big guy, no time!
Iron Man: (pointing up) Look!
Red Skull: Ah, ze superheroes are here to save the day. But without your powers, zis is just a costume party. MODOK, destroy them!
MODOK: Yes, I will take great pleasure in destroying these puny heroes!
Spider-Man: I got 'im, guys! Spider-Man smash!
(Spidey smashes through the roof of the Googolplex Mall while Linda is outside listening on her headphones oblivious)
Tour Guide: Looking to your left you'll see...
Spider-Man: Whoooa!!! Whoooooaaa!!
Hulk: Was he makin' fun of me?
Thor: A little, yes.
(Thor clings onto a part of the wall while Hulk roars. Hulk attempts to punch Venom but Venom gets the upper hand and throws him into Rogers Appliances store.)
Whiplash: They still have their powers!
Red Skull: Yes, but they are all mixed up! (He lifts Doofenshmirtz up by his lab coat) Zis your doing!??!
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, I don't remember making a Power-Switch-inator, but, ih, y'know, I make a lot of inators!
(Red Skull tosses Doof who crashes into some tables. MODOK blasts some beams towards Iron Man.)
Iron Man: Y'know, it'd be really nice right now to have the power to throw a hammer!
Thor: I told you it's not about power, it's about worthiness! (sigh) It's like talking to a Bilgesnipe.
(Whiplash wields his whips again.)
The Beak: Bacaw!
(Whiplash whips the Beak in two.)
MODOK: Hey, what's going on?!
(Pan down to reveal Thor carrying MODOK. He attempts to throw him, but cannot let go.)
Thor: I find myself in a sticky situation. Oh no, I've received Spider-Man's propensity for puns!
(Cut to Whiplash. Ferb kicks him with the legs. Phineas trips him with the body. Whiplash strikes the fountain electrocuting the suit.)
Phineas: Now I wish we'd prioritized the waterproofing.
(MODOK, still stuck to Thor, blasts beams all over the mall, finally striking Iron Man. Hulk comes out wearing various appliances and pots and pans.)
Hulk: Now I'm Iron Man! (The real Iron Man crashes into the impostor. Spidey finally comes down to Earth crashing on an eyeglass kiosk.)
Spider-Man: Okay, that time, I overshot the mark. Oh, hey, Venom. What'd I miss? (Venom grabs Spidey, choking him.)
Phineas: Spider-Man, are you okay?
Spider-Man: Could be worse! At least Iron Man and Thor are... (Cut to MODOK harming Thor.) Well, at least Iron Man...
Iron Man: (tied up in Whiplash's whips) Sorry, gang. A little tied up at the moment.
Spider-Man: Okay, nevermind. It couldn't be worse!

Act III
(Open up on the Googolplex Mall.)
Stan Lee: (voiceover) Welcome back, faithful viewers! When last we left our handsome heroes, their fate hung in the balance in a cataclysmic cliffhanger.
Red Skull: Zis vas all too easy. The time for heroes is over. Now all will bow to us. Und nossing vill save you now.
(Cut up to reveal a mysterious shadowed figure coming down on a hoverboard into the destroyed glass ceiling. Closeup to reveal that it is in fact Agent P, now wearing a superhero costume and mask. Perry flies his hoverboard into MODOK. He steps on a pedal releasing some fog.)
Red Skull: (coughing) Stop him!
(Perry steps onto another pedal on the hoverboard and some ropes are released grabbing Phineas, Ferb, and the heroes. He lifts them up to safety.)
Spider-Man: Hey, Duck Guy, thanks for the rescue! (to Iron Man) Do we tip him?
Iron Man: He's not parking our car.
Spider-Man: I just don't know the etiquette.
Red Skull: Dah! Who vas that masked...beaver...duck?
MODOK: MODOK will exterminate all beaver-ducks!
Doofenshmirtz: Y'know, none of this would have happened if we had just gone out for ice cream like I suggested!
(Cut to the backyard, where Perry lowers Phineas, Ferb, and the heroes by S.H.E.D.)
Thor: (to Agent P) Thank you, small but mighty friend!
Phineas: You know, he seemed vaguely familiar.
Spider-Man: Ya think that was Howard the Duck?
Iron Man: Time is of the essence. We've gotta—No, it wasn't Howard the Duck!
Spider-Man: What? I'm just sayin'.
Hulk: He did have a bill.
Iron Man: Anyway, we need to regroup and figure out a plan B.
Phineas: Right! Back to S.H.E.D.-quarters!
(Cut to inside S.H.E.D., where Isabella is reading a comic book, and Buford, Baljeet and Candace are busy building something.)
Phineas: Hi, guys!
Buford: So, how'd it go?
Iron Man: We got our butts handed to us. (to Spidey) How was Venom able to overpower you when you had Hulk's strength?
Spider-Man: I don't know. I'm...I'm not feeling it anymore.
Thor: Wait, let me try something. (runs to the wall and jumps up, but falls down.) I did not stick.
Phineas: I was afraid of that. The powers are not bonding with your cel structures.
Iron Man: Yes, my suit is getting heavier again. But at least having Thor's strength unlocked the joints so I could move.
Baljeet: Perhaps we can give you a recharge, but, of course, this time with the correct powers. We have been working on rebuilding the machine.
Candace: And I'm helping!
Phineas: (taking off the Beak's torso) You are?
Candace: I'm redeeming myself.
Baljeet: Yes, and we are almost done with the first component.
Buford: Hulk's gamma-ray concentration beam. Brawn first, right, big guy?
(Hulk hits his chest twice and points.)
Phineas: That's great!
Iron Man: So have you done a base level particle acceleration yet?
Baljeet: I was just about to.
Iron Man: It's really important to make sure you start with a base level.
Phineas: Oh, sure. Otherwise the gamma-rays would...
(During this conversation, Candace looks aside to see it is not plugged in.)
Candace: Wait, lemme get this for ya. (plugs it in)
Phineas: Whoa! Who plugged—
Baljeet: Uh...oh...
(The ray zaps Baljeet who turns green and hulks out.)
Hulkjeet: Baljeet smash!! (Smashes the machine to pieces and runs out crashing through the wall running by the Garcia-Shapiro house and jumping off.)
Candace: Wow. There's something you don't see every— (sees Phineas' über-ticked-off expression) What? What?
Phineas: Really, Candace?! Do you have any idea what you just did?!
Candace: I was just trying to help.
Phineas: Well, your "help" this morning messed up so badly, we came this close to being wiped out at the mall! I thought you've learned your lesson!!
Candace: But...but I—
Phineas: "But" no! You show up again to help, and now Baljeet has been hulkified and is rampaging who knows where!! And we're back to square one with restoring the heroes' powers!!
Candace: But...but—
Phineas: This is just too important!! And we can't afford any more setbacks!! (Takes off her lanyard) I'm revoking your S.H.E.D. card! (Tears up the card.) You have to go!! NOW!!
(Candace walks away to sad piano music a la David Banner in The Incredible Hulk TV show.)
Buford: I've always told her: Don't ever make Phineas angry. You wouldn't like it when he's angry.
(Candace looks back in guilt before walking out the door.)
Isabella: Oh no! Baljeet! We've gotta go after him!
Thor: Sadly, there is no time! Our mission lies elsewhere!Isabella: Well, I'll go after him then!
Buford: Nah, nah. I'll go! You stay here, little girl, it might get ugly.
Isabella: What? You don't think I can handle ugly? I've been hangin' out with you all summer!
Buford: Sticks and stones!
(Cut to Perry flying above the Tri-State Area. His wristwatch communicator beeps.)
Nick Fury: Greetings, Agent P! S.H.I.E.L.D. has gotten intel that the supervillains are holed up in downtown Danville in an oddly-shaped building with its own jingle. We need you to find out what they're up to!
(Perry's other wristwatch communicator beeps.)
Major Monogram: (now sporting an eyepatch and a goatee like Fury) And neutralize them if possible, Agent P!
Nick Fury: Monogram! Seriously, the beard, too?!
Major Monogram: You're not the only one who can rock an awesome face mullet, Fury!
(Perry flies to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: (standing in front of an inator) And see, it takes four orbs of mundanium finite to power it. It would only take one orb of Pizzazium Infinionite but that's so hard to find. Oh, don't get me started! So we just lock the module in here and...Viola! Yeah, I know, it's a large violin. I-I don't know why people say that. Anyhoo, what did you guys need a second Power-Drain-inator for?
Red Skull: So we won't have to deal vit your idiocy anymore! (Takes out a remote and traps Doof in a cage.)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, that's not nice! I-I thought we were buds! We were amigos! We had...We had a song and everything!
Red Skull: Your little musical interlude vas a pleasant diwersion at best! You see, ve're not going to take over ze Tri-State Area. We are going to completely destroy it and show vat vill happen if anyone attempts to swart our plan!
Doofenshmirtz: Did you just say, "Swart our plan"?
Red Skull: No. Swart! Sw- Vit a T-H! Swart!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, "thwart"! Yeah, it makes more sense. I think that maybe you should go see a speech pathologist or a-a-a dialect coach or someth—
Red Skull: SILENCE!!! Vunce ve've made our point, we will use our contraption to draw avay ze powers of all ze superheroes on ze planet! And take over ze world!
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, you guys really think big!
Red Skull: But first, Venom, squash our little fly on ze ceiling!
(Venom stretches his arm out and Perry dodges it. He attempts to sneak away on the pipe, but Whiplash whips it. Perry holds onto it, but Venom grabs him and he gets trapped...again.)
Red Skull: Now we go and send a little message to our handicapped heroes. Come! Schnell!
Doofenshmirtz: (to Perry) You're not very good at thwarting. I...I should hook you up with my nemesis Perry the Platypus for some pointers. It's an art form for him.
(Cut to another part of Danville. Hulkjeet crashes into the pavement and roars, picking up a tiny car, emptying it with thousands of clowns, and throws the car into a building.)
Hulkjeet: BALJEET SMASH!!!
(He smashes the road and roars, and dives into the crack, picking up a subway train and lifting it. Pan to Linda still on her walking tour.)
Tour Guide: The courtyard also features a statue of Franz the Elephant.
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house. Cut to Candace's bedroom where she is lying down in sorrow. Isabella is standing next to her.)
Isabella: (sadly) Hey, Candace. What'cha doin'?
Candace: Just laying here. Utterly dejected.
Isabella: I hear you. None of the women superheroes showed up, so it's all about testosterone and...powers and...fighting, which... (shrugs) yeah.
Candace: I was only trying to help but all I did was mess things up. (sigh) I'm useless.
Isabella: I know exactly how you feel.
(Song: "Only Trying To Help")
♪ Well, it's all about the boys ♪
♪ Playing with their macho toys ♪
♪ And they're making so much noise ♪
♪ I didn't really want to shout. ♪
Candace: ♪ My presence felt like an intrusion, ♪
♪ Causing way too much confusion. ♪
♪ Now I've been sent into seclusion, ♪
♪ I've been banished and cast out. ♪
Candace and Isabella: (in harmony) ♪ I'm not tryin' to place the blame, ♪
♪ But I feel it just the same. ♪
♪ That we could be, yes, we should be ♪
♪ In the game. ♪
♪ My spirit's feelin' daunted, ♪
♪ I'm not sure I'm all that wanted ♪
♪ Though I'm acting nonchalant it's clear ♪
♪ I'm starting to doubt myself. ♪
♪ Don't want to sound too stoic. ♪
♪ I'm not feeling that heroic. ♪
♪ No matter what I do I blow it ♪
♪ And I'm only trying to help. ♪
(By this point, the girls walk downstairs up to the screen door where it looks like it is raining.)
♪ Only trying to help. ♪
♪ Only trying to help. ♪




Candace:
♪ Only trying to help. ♪
♪ Only trying to help. ♪
♪ Only trying to help. ♪
♪ Only trying to help. ♪


Isabella:
♪ I'm only trying to help. ♪
♪ I'm only trying to help out. ♪
♪ I'm only trying to help now. ♪
♪ I'm only... ♪


Candace: ♪ Only trying to help. ♪
Isabella: ...trying to help, Phineas.
Lawrence: Hello, girls. (Wide shot to reveal the "rain" is actually the sprinkler.) Don't mind me. I'm just givin' the lawn a bit of a drink. (turns it off) It's off now.
(Cut back to Hulkjeet. Buford approaches him.)
Buford: Hey, Baljeet! (Hulkjeet roars and picks Buford up by the shirt.) Heh heh heh...heh...I'm so happy that I found you! I worry about you, you know. Because...you're my best friend.
(Hulkjeet dehulks back into his normal self.)
Baljeet: Ah. Thanks, Buford. I did not like being an angry monster.
Buford: I'm glad. Because you weren't very good at it anyway!!
Baljeet: Really? I think I was actually quite terrifying.
Buford: Oh, come on! You're totally green! (No pun intended.) For example, when you grab somebody's shirt (grabs Baljeet's shirt) and lift 'em up...
Baljeet: Hey!
Buford: ...ya gotta twist it first! (demonstrates) And you yell REALLY LOUD!!!
(Baljeet hulks out again.)
Hulkjeet: (roars and lifts Buford back up) DO NOT YELL AT BALJEET LIKE THAT!!! (throws Buford and roars and runs)
(Buford lands on a conveniently placed pillow. Zoom out to reveal he landed in Ultra-Soft Bedding Warehaüs.)
Buford: Okay, the throwin' was good! But when you grabbed my shirt, you didn't twist!! I swear, it's like in one ear and right out de other! Oh, oh! Baljeet, wait up! (goes after him)
(Cut to Danville City Hall where a giant crowd of people is seeing the supervillains make an announcement.)
Red Skull: Citizens of Danville and ze surrounding Tri-State Area, prepare for your imminent end! Unless Iron Man, Spider-Man, Zor and Hulk show up to face us, we will unleash a device a zousand times vorse zan ze von zat hit zem! (pointing to the device behind him) Thanks to MODOK's modifications, our Power-Drain-inator doesn't merely drain power. It drains energy, matter, everything the target vas! (presses a button) Observe.
(The inator activates. Cut to another part of Danville where the Excelsior! hot dog vendor from New York is giving a hot dog. The inator beam blasts and makes the stand disappear.)
Hot Dog Vendor: Aw, man! And I just moved here from New York, cuz I thought it would be safer!
(Cut to S.H.E.D. where Phineas and Ferb are repairing the Beak suit. Red Skull's image appears on a TV laughing evilly.)
Phineas: Uh, guys, you better come see this.
Red Skull: So, heroes, eizer you come down here and face us, or ve vill unleash zis veapon on ze entire Tri-State Area! (Laughs evilly)
Thor: Ah! The fiend!
Spider-Man: I actually missed a lot of that with the accent, but I got that it's bad.
Phineas: Oh, man. What're we gonna do?
Thor: What we have to.
Phineas: But you have no powers.
Iron Man: That doesn't matter. We've gotta fight back with whatever we've got left.
Thor: Being a hero isn't the armor you wear. But the metal in your spirit and the steel in your resolve.
(The heroes walk out the hole in the wall Hulkjeet left.)
Spider-Man: Man, that was eloquent. All I ever do is quips. Like this one, for instance. And the one preceding it.
Iron Man: Can we please not kill the gravitas of this moment?
Spider-Man: Sorry.

Act IV
(Open up where we last left Phineas and Ferb, still fixing up the suit.)
Phineas: Man! We've got a lot to do if we're gonna get this suit back online. I think we can get 60% function back if we reroute the power flow through the backup circuits.
(Cut to outside S.H.E.D. Candace and Isabella walk up to the door.)
Candace: Maybe if I just go in and apologize one more time they'll forgive me. I have a stomachache, I feel so bad.
Isabella: They're your brothers. They'll listen.
(Cut back to inside where the girls approach the boys.)
Candace: Phineas, look, I'm sorry.
Phineas: How did you get in? I thought I revoked your S.H.E.D. ID.
Candace: Isabella gave me her guest pass.
Phineas: Fine, but...don't touch anything.
Candace: Ferb, you've gotta listen to me!
Phineas: (to Ferb) The shoulder joint's ready. (climbing down the ladder) Excuse me, Candace.
Candace: Phineas, can't you stop and listen?
Phineas: Candace, you don't understand! The guys are in trouble! If we can't get downtown to help them, this may be their final battle!
(Ferb gives Phineas the arm and they climb up the ladder.)
(Cut to Downtown Danville, where the villains are all waiting.)
Whiplash: The heroes are not coming!
Red Skull: Oh, don't worry. They'll come.
MODOK: My sensors tell me the heroes are approaching.
(A bus arrives and stops at its designated stop.)
Red Skull: Perfect! Zey're on ze bus!
(The villains approach the bus. The doors open and a little old lady exits with her walker.)
Little Old Lady: Outta my way, you weirdos! It's worse than Portland!
(The heroes all come out of the bus. Hulk roars and attempts to punch Venom, but Venom attacks Hulk. Thor tries to come after Venom, but he grabs Thor, trapping him against the bus. MODOK beams Spidey into a mindball.)
Spider-Man: A mindball? Really? Hey, MODOK, can you feel it in your brain when I go like this? (rubs his hands against the ball)
Red Skull: Ve have zem now!
Whiplash: What about old lady?
Red Skull: Eh? Oh, she is not—She is not vis zem!
(Cut to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: (to Perry) So you're a superhero, huh? Don't you have some sort of power to get us out of this? (Perry pushes a button on his utility belt) Hey...Oh, wow! You've got...super wire cutters, huh? Oh, what are they, nail clippers that got bitten by radioactive pinching shears?
(Cut back to S.H.E.D.)
Phineas: (sitting in the Beak suit) We've only got half the server motors on the right side online.
Candace: This isn't funny, guys! You can't go! It's not safe!
Isabella: Phineas!
Phineas: Don't worry, Isabella. Initiate launching sequence, Ferb. (The rocket jets appear from the butt, but one goes back in.)
Isabella: Phineas, you've only got one butt jet!
Phineas: Well, that'll have to do. Bacaw! (launches)
Candace: Phineas!
The Beak: (flying all willy-nilly) Whoa! Whoa!
(Cut back to downtown Danville)
Red Skull: (to Iron Man) Pasetic! Look at how you've vasted your lives! Protecting zees humans, who are so qvick to abandon you in your hour of need!
(Whiplash throws Iron Man into the sky.)
Red Skull: Vhiplash!
Whiplash: What?
Red Skull: I vas talking to him!
Whiplash: Sorry.
Red Skull: Look around you! Now zat you have no powers, you have no friends, no allies, you have nussing!
(Hulkjeet arrives to save Iron Man.)
Iron Man: We have a Baljeet.
Hulkjeet: Hulkjeet.
Iron Man: Oh, my bad. Apparently he prefers to be known as "Hulkjeet". (The Beak arrives.) And this thing.
The Beak: Bacaw!
Iron Man: If it's a bird, it's with us, too. (Agent P flies in) The flying duck with a beaver tail. We got him! (Waffles fall from the sky) But I gotta level with ya, I have no idea who's shooting waffles.
(Cut to D.E.I. to reveal Doofenshmirtz firing waffles from his Waffle-inator.)
Doofenshmirtz: Woo-hoo! Top of the world, Ma!
Spider-Man: Yo, Red, (holding the orbs) is this doohickey important?
Red Skull: Ze mundanium finite reactor core!
Spider-Man: Huh. I guess it is important. (runs off)
Red Skull: Go get him! I shall guard ze inator! (gets waffled)
(Cut to the park. Spidey runs off with the reactor. Venom crashes into some springy kiddie rides. Whiplash attempts to attack him, but hits an umbrella. Spidey almost gets crushed but gets saved by Hulkjeet.)
Spider-Man: Thanks, Baljeet!
Hulkjeet: Hulkjeet!
(MODOK crashes through the umbrella. Perry crashes into MODOK. Venom goes after Spidey, but the Beak blocks him.)
The Beak: Bacaw!
Spider-Man: Woo!
(Whiplash goes after Spidey, but Hulkjeet smashes him and roars.)
(Cut back to Candace and Isabella as we left them.)
Candace: (pacing back and forth) There's one thing I don't understand about the lost superpowers. In all the comics I've read, energy can never be destroyed. Only morphed into a different form or contained somehow.
Isabella: Candace, when we were up at the space station, we were collecting and containing data!
Candace: You were up in what?
Isabella: Come on!
(Cut to the backyard.)
Isabella: Have a seat.
Candace: What are you talking about?
Isabella: Just go with it.
(They sit down on the ground and the module from the beginning of the episode reappears.)
Candace: Oh, that's where this thing was!
(Cut back to the battle. Spidey is still running with the reactor core. He gets saved by Iron Man driving a golf cart.)
Spider-Man: Fast cart!
Iron Man: Yeah, I souped it up!
Spider-Man: (gives Iron Man the reactor core) Here! Hold this! (goes to the back and gets the caddy bag) You mind if I play through? (Unzips the front pocket emptying it of all the tees. Whiplash slips on the tees. Spidey gets out a club with dog-shaped cover on it and throws the caddy bag at Venom.) Go get 'im, boy! (Throws the club at MODOK.) Good dog!
(Red Skull walks up, but is startled by Buford in...yep, you guessed it...a bear suit holding a fish.)
Bear Boy: Beware Bear Boy! (slaps the fish at Red Skull)
(Hulk and Thor approach two little kids.)
Hulk: Now you kids stay back! Hmm?
(Hulk and Thor look at the bike and skateboard the kids have with them.)
(Cut to the space station.)
Candace: You don't think it's weird the space station looks like Phineas?
Isabella: If by "weird" you mean "dreamy".
Candace: Oh, brother.
Isabella: Look! The collection tank! There's something glowing in there! It's gotta be the powers!
Candace: (looking through a telescope) Looks like the fight's begun! Now make the powers blast out...down there and stuff.
Isabella: I don't know how to do that!
Candace: Whadaya mean? Didn't Phineas explain how to—
Isabella: Yeah. It was like, "Isabella...blah blah blah blah blah...Isabella...blah blah blah blah blah..." He was dressed like an astronaut! I was distracted!
(Cut back to the battle. Spidey and Iron Man hit MODOK with their golf cart. Whiplash whips it in two. Iron Man gets surrounded by the villains. Hulk, now riding the kid's bike, grabs the reactor core from Iron Man. Thor appears on the other kid's skateboard. Hulk throws the reactor core. Whiplash is about to intercept but gets slapped by Bear Boy's fish. Thor catches the reactor core. MODOK attempts to zap Thor. He retrieves the reactor core, but gets waffled. Spidey attempts to catch the reactor core, but Whiplash whips it. The Beak finally catches it. However, Red Skull tugs on it. It falls apart.)
Red Skull: Ze mundanium finite! (to Venom) Get zose orbs!
(Venom slashes the Beak's torso and Ferb pops out. The heroes and the gang chase after it. Cut to Doofenshmirtz.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ooh, these waffles aren't enough. I...I wish I could just disintegrate them all. (gasp) Oh, right! The Disintegrator-inator! Duh! (switches it on, nothing happens) I don't know what I was—Hey! (flips the switch up and down) Hey, what's wrong? Hmmm. (picks up the unplugged plug) Oh, here's the problem. (He walks up to an extension cord outlet, but the plug is too short.) Okay, I just need an extension cord this long. (Runs off.)
(Cut back to the space station.)
Candace: Isabella, (points to a big red button) I think this is the button that'll release the superpowers!
Isabella: How can you tell?
Candace: Well, it's red, see? And there's some red detailing on that collector thing, so it's gotta be it.
Isabella: That's a very irrational and reckless deduction.
Candace: No, Isabella! I've failed twice already so the third time's a charm!
(Isabella gasps loudly as Candace pushes the button. An alarm goes off.)
Computer: System shutting down.
Candace: Uh-oh.
Computer: Anti-gravitational jets disabled.
Isabella: Candace!
Computer: Orbit decaying.
Candace: We're falling back to Earth!
Computer: Fuel systems immobilized. Social network friends...defriended.
Candace: Oh, now that's just mean!

Act V
(Open up on D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, this long. This long, lessee. (gets out a few extension cords) Too short. Too short. Too long. Way too short! Why would I even have this?!
(Cut to Linda on her tour.)
Tour Guide: If you look to your left, you will see the J.P. McHenry Building, built in the art deco style. (Behind her, the battle still rages on.) And on your right is Danville's oldest arcade, built in 1982.
(Cut back to the battle. One of the orbs is on a fountain. Spider-Man attempts to reach to it, as do MODOK and Venom. They are smashed by Hulkjeet. The Beak catches the orb, but Whiplash takes out the arm that holds it, ripping it off and causing a fire.)
The Beak: Talk about being disarmed.
(Ferb extinguishes the flames. Cut to Whiplash taking the orb from the arm's grip. The Beak runs after him, but the suit falls apart.)
The Beak: That's not good.
(Cut to another orb rolling on the ground. Venom goes after it, but Bear Boy's fish swallows it.)
Hulk: Hey! Over here!
(Bear Boy throws the orb to Hulk, but Venom intercepts it. Thor and Perry carry the other orbs, but get zapped by MODOK. The villains put the orbs back into the reactor core.)
Red Skull: Enough of zis foolishness! (Places the reactor core back into the inator) Our triumph is at hand! (The inator activates.) And now, behold, ze destruction of ze entire Tri-State—
(The space station crashes into the villains and the inator.)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb, is that our space station?
(The "mouth" opens to reveal Candace and Isabella, with Candace's foot on the tank.)
Candace: Yo, heroes, got a little somethin' for ya! (rolls down the tank)
Phineas: Candace! The data collection tank! Of course!
Spider-Man: Great job! Somebody's using their spider sense.
Candace: I learned from the best, Spidey!
(MODOK's mindball squeezes the villains out from under the wreckage.)
Red Skull: Get up! Get zem, you fools!!
(Phineas and Ferb activate the tank. A spout appears out of one end of it and zaps the heroes.)
(Song: "Feelin' Super")
♪ Feelin' super, super, ♪
♪ Oh, you know I'm feelin' super, super, ♪
♪ Uh, I'm always feelin' super, super! ♪
♪ Ya gotta take a step back! ♪
♪ I'm feelin' super, super, ♪
♪ Oh, you know I'm feelin' super, super, ♪
♪ Uh, I'm always feelin' super, super! ♪
♪ I run so fast I got a speedin' ticket from a state trooper! ♪
Thor: Hmm.
(After the heroes get zapped, Iron Man finally jets up, Spidey web slings, Hulk smashes the tank, and Thor reaches out his hand to retrieves Mjolnir, which, by this time, is completely covered in parking tickets.)
Thor: (shakes the tickets off to reveal a parking boot on the hammer) Oh, for crying out loud! (He tears the boot off and reaches the hammer out. Candace smiles and touches Mjolnir and giggles giddily.)
Candace: Hee-hee-hee-hee!
Red Skull: (growls) I zink perhaps our window of opportunity has closed.
Phineas: Well, Iron Man, looks like you're functioning at full capacity.
Iron Man: Yep. Why don't you kids take five? Enjoy the show.
Ferb: Oh, this is going to be sweet.
Phineas: Yeah it is!
(Song: "Feeling Froggy")
(Hulk roars, and we see an Avengers-style revolving camera shot of all the heroes, including Agent P.)
♪ Oh yeah!! ♪
(Cut to the gang sitting on the step of a gazebo eating popcorn. Hulkjeet dehulks back to his old self.)
Buford: Better?
(Cut back to the battle.)
♪ What are you lookin' at? ♪
♪You think you're kinda bad? ♪
♪I know you're thinkin' that you wanna try to knock me down. ♪
♪ Well, go on, punk, and bring it! ♪
♪ Just throw it down and wing it. ♪
♪ Got somethin' heavy? Swing it! ♪
♪ Gonna try and knock me down. ♪
♪ You think you gotta hand, ya better play it, ♪
♪ But don't be surprised if you pull back a stump. ♪
♪That chip on your shoulder, I think ya better weigh it, ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm just gonna say it! ♪
♪ If you're feelin' froggy, just jump! ♪
(Hulk jumps onto the space station and tears out the satellite and smashes Venom and Whiplash with it and roars.)
Phineas: Hey, Hulk, that's using my head!
Baljeet: Nice!
Phineas: (high fives Ferb) Wordplay!
♪ Just jump! ♪
♪ If you're feelin' froggy, just jump! ♪
♪ You think you've got the stuff? ♪
♪ You think you're tough enough? ♪
♪ Then just roll up your cuff and come and try to knock me down! ♪
♪ You think you wanna dance? ♪
♪ Come on and take a chance! ♪
(Thor wields lightning from Mjolnir, raising Candace and Isabella's hair.)
Candace: Huh? Thor!
♪ Not worth a second glance, you wanna try to knock me down! ♪
♪ So just say you're all in and let the chips fall ♪
♪ And then we can find out who's the real chump. ♪
♪ If you think I'm gonna fold, then you could win it all ♪
♪ Then I'm gonna call ♪
♪ If you're feelin' froggy, just jump! ♪
Phineas: (to Candace) Hey.
Candace: Hey.
Phineas: So earlier, I really lost it. Uh, I'm sorry.
Candace: No, I'm sorry. I deserved it. Everything I did made things worse.
Phineas: It's okay. You were trying to help. And hello! You guys saved the day!
Candace: Thanks!
Phineas: (taking out the repaired S.H.E.D. ID) So will you take your S.H.E.D. membership card back? I fixed it.
Candace: (takes it) I accept.
♪ If you're feelin' froggy, just jump! ♪
♪ If you're feelin' froggy, just jump! ♪
♪ Come on! ♪
♪ If you're feelin' froggy, just jump! ♪
(By the end of the song and the battle, Iron Man and Hulk sign photos to Major Monogram and Carl respectively and hand them to Perry, who smiles and gives a thumbs up.)
Candace: What? (she sees her mother walking by the wreckage) Is that Mom? You know I love you guys and I'm super glad we made up, but would you look at this place? Sorry, but you are SO BUSTED!! Mom! (And there she goes again.)
(After Candace leaves, the S.H.I.E.L.D. helicarrier flies in and lowers the Quinjet. Fury emerges from the aircraft. The heroes approach him with the tied up villains.)
Nick Fury: Toss 'em in! Nice work, kids! You didn't just get back our heroes' powers. You showed true courage fighting alongside them!  (renders a hand salute) S.H.I.E.L.D. owes you a debt of gratitude. (Phineas and Ferb return the salute.)
Hot Dog Vendor: Yeah! Hot dogs for everyone, baby!
(Cut to Linda on her tour.)
Tour Guide: Three years later when the new day care center was built on top of the ancient burial ground...
Candace: Mom! Mom Mom Mom! You gotta come back to the square!! The boys' space satellite crashed down to Earth and these villains had a machine that would destroy the Tri-State Area and there's superheroes!! All in the square!! You gotta see it!
Linda: I'm surprised that's not on the tour.
Candace: No time for sarcasm, Mom! (grabs her) Come on!!
(Cut back to the square where Iron Man gives Ferb a card.)
Iron Man: Here's my direct line, Ferb. Internship, next summer? It'll be fun.
(Ferb points, winks, and clicks his tongue.)
Spider-Man: Next time, Phin, the juice box'll be my treat. (web slings away)
Phineas: You got it, Spidey!
(Hulk growls at Baljeet and holds out his fist.)
Baljeet: Uh, okay. (fist bumps Hulk)
Hulk: Ow! Hmm. Ha ha! Gotcha!
(The heroes all go into the Quinjet as Thor brings lightning to Mjolnir once more. Buford waves his fish in the air. The Helicarrier and Quinjet take off as the heroes wave goodbye to the gang.)
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ih. Finally found an extension cord the right size! (plugs in the inator) Take that, bad guys! (The inator zaps the space station away and Candace appears just as it disappears.)
Candace: ...giant head shaped like Phineas and superheroes! But...but...but...
Linda: Oh, yes. There they are. (zoom out to reveal a comic book stand full of Spider-Man, Hulk, Thor, Iron Man and Ducky Momo comics)
Candace: Wha?
Linda: Hulk, Iron Man, Thor. All of them. I forgot you had a thing for comic books.
Candace: But but...This isn't how..Wait, where did...
Linda: You wanna join me for the rest of the tour?
Candace: No, I'd rather stay here and sulk.
(Linda turns the audio tour back on and resumes her tour.)
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz.)
Doofenshmirtz: I did it! Did anyone see that? Anyone? Anyone? No one's lookin'. Nobody's payin' attention.

End Credits
(Open up on the gang in the square.)
Phineas: Hey! There goes that unknown superhero! (The gang approach Agent P.) You were pretty awesome out there!
Buford: Yeah, and what's your secret identity?
Phineas: Buford, a hero never reveals their secret identity.
Buford: Sure they do! Watch!
(Buford takes the mask off to reveal:)
Everyone: Ducky Momo?!?
Candace: Ducky Momo?!?! (sighs and faints into Isabella's arms)
(Ducky Momo flies away.)
Ferb: That's strange. I was convinced that he was an anthropomorphic platypus. Huh. What with the beaver tail and all.
(Perry walks into frame.)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry! You missed all the fun!
(The gang walks home. Cut to a trash can revealing both Agent P's superhero suit and a Ducky Momo mask in it.)



(At Steam Noir, Monty and Vanessa are talking)
Monty: This was nice.
Vanessa: Yeah, I'm glad we ran into each other.
Monty: Yeah, almost literally you almost ran over me with that scooter.
Vanessa: What can I say? You walk slow. So, uh, what are you doing tonight?
Monty: Yeah, I'm gonna see Love Sandal. It's a Love Händel cover band that, uh, that plays in, in sandals. My- my cousin plays bass, he can get us backstage, it'll be fun. You wanna come?
Vanessa: Uh, no, no I don't. I'll catch you later.
(They share a kiss, and Vanessa leaves)
Monty: Keep an eye out for that scooter.
(Carl comes by and takes Vanessa's seat)
Carl: ♪ Monty and Vanessa, sittin' in a tree... ♪
Monty: Carl...
Carl: Let me finish. ♪ K-I-S-S-I-N-G! ♪
Monty: Go ahead.
Carl: You mean there's more?
Monty: Look, you don't have to tell my dad about this, do you?
Carl: Monty, Monty. Walk with me. You know your dad is my superior. I'm obliged to tell him everything. I can't imagine what could possibly sway me to consider such a dereliction of duty.
Monty: Alright, Carl, I get it, what do you want?
Carl: I want your father to disown you, and adopt me.
Monty: Okay, what do you want within reason?
Carl: You, you don't understand. I do all the work at the agency, but he doesn't even acknowledge me. I mean that's all I want, a simple "Thank you" is that too much to ask?
Monty: You just want him to say "Thank you"?
Carl: Yes, a simple "Thank you."
Monty: Carl, if that's all you want, then I'm sure I can get Dad to say "Thank you" to you.
Carl: Well, if you can do that, maybe I can just forget to mention the whole "dating a sworn enemy's daughter" thing.
Monty: Deal.
(They shake on it)
(Song: "Fletcher Family Flying Circus" (instrumental))
Phineas: Hey Ferb, check out this cool picture of Grandma and Grandpa Flynn in their pyramid water skiing days. Wow. It's all the fun of water skiing times ten. You know, I bet you pyramids would make any sport better. Ferb...
Candace: What do you think you're—
Phineas: (using the mic dropped down from the tree) I KNOW WHAT WE'RE GONNA DO TODAY!!!!
Candace: —doing?
(A high pitched ring drones in the background)
Phineas: (sounds slightly muffled) Oh, hey, Candace.
Candace: What?!
Phineas: I said, "Hey, Candace."
Candace: What?! I can't hear you over all this ringing!
Phineas: Don't worry about it. It'll go away in a sec. See ya' later, Candace.
(Both Phineas and Ferb leave)
Candace: I may not be able to hear you, but I can see you! If you stay in range!
Off-Screen Voice: (From her second story window overlooking the backyard) Oh, Candace, right on schedule.
Candace: Uh, hi. Are you new here?
Woman: Heavens no, dear, I've been here all summer. I've so enjoyed watching your brothers build so many amazing things everyday.
Candace: Oh that's perfect. Uh, you know what? My arms are getting really tired, just hold that thought, I'll be right back. (runs off, and returns with a step ladder) You were saying?
Woman: They're so inventive. I mean they built that rollercoaster, oh, and that spa, and I loved that platypus-themed restaurant, even though I couldn't get a reservation. The bouncer was so harsh. (While saying this, Candace smiles widely) Oh, but the best was when they had their own sitcom.
Candace: Wait, I wasn't even here for that one.
Woman: I know, but I wouldn't miss a minute of witnessing your brothers' backyard fun.
Candace: Lady, you've got to help me! You've got to come down here and tell my mom all about it!
Woman: Oh, I don't think so, dear. Um, I just don't feel up to leaving the house.
Candace: No problem. You stay right where you are, and I'll bring my mom over! (Starts to leave but comes back) Heeheeheeheehee...
Woman: Oh, by the way...
Candace: What?
Woman: Where's Perry?
(In his lair)
♪ Perry ♪
(A pause)
♪ Perry ♪
(At the recording area)
Monty: Hey Dad.
Major Monogram: Monty my boy. It's always wonderful to see you.
Carl: Hello sir.
Major Monogram: Carl, what took you so long? Hand me that report would you?
Carl: Yes sir.
Major Monogram: My coffee! Huh, thanks Monty.
Monty: Actually Carl-
Major Monogram: Carl, the trash chute is clogged again, do you mind?
Carl: Of course not sir. (He makes his way past Monty and Major Monogram) Pardon me. Excuse me. Coming through
Monty: Uh, Dad, Agent P is here.
Major Monogram: Oh, so he is. Morning Agent P. Dr. Doofenshmirtz has been spotted on his balcony repeatedly shaking his fist and then running back into his building. Which is obviously evil. Well, okay maybe not evil, but definitely cliche. So, go and stop him from his cartoon conventions.
(Perry jetpacks out)
(Song: "Pyramid Sports")
♪ Pyramid sports, pyramid sports, pyramid; ♪
♪ Pyramid, pyramid sports. ♪
♪ If you want something new, we've got the game for you: ♪
♪ It's a sport of a different sort; you can do what the pharaohs do. ♪
♪ The new recreation that is sweeping the nation with pyramid formation: ♪
♪ (Yeaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!) ♪
♪ Pyramid sports, pyramid sports, pyramid; ♪
♪ Pyramid, pyramid sports. ♪
Here's how you play!
♪ Form yourselves into a pyramid, I guess that's step number one. ♪
♪ Try any sport, now experiment, ♪
♪ Just go and have some fun. ♪
♪ You can do any sport you wish: archery, bowling, ♪
♪ You can even pyramid fish. ♪
I don't care if it's played in a field or on a court,
'Cause everyone here is into pyramid sports!
♪ (Yeaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!) ♪
♪ Pyramid sports, pyramid sports, pyramid sports; ♪
♪ Pyramid sports, pyramid sports! ♪
Baljeet: I think I pulled my sigmoid colon.
(Doofenshmirtz is busy aiming a device at a man who is playing the bagpipes)
Doofenshmirtz: Annoying musician. C-Come on. Come on. Come to papa. Ah! Bingo! (Perry puts his tail in front of the scope) Hey what's with the waffle? Oh very funny Perry the Platypus, very funny. If you'll just be so kind as to move your tail out of the way. (Perry does so) Thank you. There we go. That's good, an- (Perry puts his tail in front of the scope again) See now you're just being childish. Look, I promise you. I'm not even being marginally evil. I just want to stop that guy from playing his bagpipes everyday, 24-hours a day. I mean look at him. On what planet is that racket considered music? Ugh! I cannot take it anymore, so I'm gonna hit his bagpipe with my Inflate-inator! Yeah, I know, It's basically the opposite of my Deflate-inator. But I can't concentrate with all that noise! I was lucky to come up with that. But when that bagpipe blows up I will once again be able to here the usual din ringing through the city streets. Like, uh, car alarms, and babies crying, and -inators blowing up. (Perry flings himself off the -inator, and punches Doofenshmirtz)
Candace: (Pushing Linda towards the fence) Come on! Come on! Come on! This time I've got an eyewitness. (gestures toward the house with eyes closed) Go on. Go on. Tell my mom everything!
(Linda goes up the ladder and sees the window, but no one's there. She goes back down to Candace, eyes still closed)
Linda: (with disdain) Well, when the empty window feels like talking, you let me know. (walks away)
(Candace's eyes open, she climbs up to see the empty window, but the woman soon comes up)
Woman: There it is, I dropped my penny. Did you say something dear?
(Candace facepalms)
(At Alfonzo's restaurant)
Monty: How was your meal dad?
Major Monogram: Absolutely delicious. What a great new place.
Monty: I know, right? Carl found it.
Major Monogram: Well then, let me just say thank you, to the chef. Thank you for that delicious meal.
Chef: You're most welcome, so glad you enjoyed it.
Monty: Dad, isn't there something you wanted to say to Carl as well?
Major Monogram: Of course, what was I thinking? Don't be rude Carl, thank the chef.
Carl: Thank you.
Chef: I like this table, and to show my gratitude, dessert is on the house. Now if you'll excuse me, I must go and fire a member of staff. Lachenzo! Come here!
Major Monogram: There, you see? A little gratitude goes a long way. Pay attention Carl, you could learn something.
Carl: (Under his breath) ...really learn something from you, you-
Monty: Just chill out, I got another idea.
(Perry and Doofenshmirtz continue fighting, but Perry throws Doofenshmirtz into the -inator zapping them, and inflating Perry)
Doofenshmirtz: Check you out Perry the Bloat-apus. (Doofenshmirtz inflates as well) Well, uh, this is awkward. Seriously gonna-
(Perry slams into Doofenshmirtz, sending him flying backwards)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, I'm so glad I had this Helipad installed.
(Perry and Doofenshmirtz continue fighting by slamming themselves against each other)
Candace: (Dragging Linda out by the arm) No really, I swear the old lady is there in the window right now! I swear!
Linda: No need to swear. I'm coming.
Candace: There she is! (points toward where the window is)
Linda: (sees nothing but a bonsai tree in the window) Funny Candace, I could swear your "old lady" looks just like a house plant. (walks away)
Candace: What!?
Woman: (Watering the plant) There you go. A little thirsty weren't you?
(Candace faints)
(Perry and Doofenshmirtz continue throwing themselves at each other)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, wow. Aw man. We're not getting anywhere. How bout we take a time out?
(Perry pulls a valve on his fedora, and begins deflating)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, your hat has a pressure release valve? Wow, so that's what the inside of a platypus smells like? Could've gone my whole life without knowing that.
(Perry grabs the Inflate-inator, and throws it off the building)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey! Aw man, another 'nator bites the dust, and I'm stuck listening to Jerky McIrritating across the street now.
(Perry whistles down to the man, and motions him to be quiet)
Man: What's that? Oh I'm sorry, I'll stop. I didn't realize I was disturbin' you. Cheery-bye!
Doofenshmirtz: Huh, well I guess I may have over thought that solution, just a little bit.
(Perry pushes Doofenshmirtz over the edge)
Doofenshmirtz: Ahhh! Curse you Perry the Platypus!
Carl: This had better work.
Monty: Don't worry Carl, once you save my dad's life, there's no way even he could avoid thanking you for it.
Carl: I hope for your sake you're right. You know it's funny how no one's noticed a grand piano dangling precariously over our table.
Monty: Well, I also tied a couple of violins up there so it would look like a theme. Alright, listen so when my dad returns, I'll excuse myself, and cut the rope, and you push my dad out of the way of the falling piano. Got it?
(Carl nods, and Major Monogram returns)
Major Monogram: Let's get to that dessert menu.
Monty: Excuse me dad, it's my turn. I'll be right back, you guys start.
Major Monogram: Sure, sure. Thank you for not making us wait. Huh. That bathroom attendant was lovely, he gave me mints and some floss. I-I just couldn't thank him enough.
Carl: Watch out sir!
(Carl shoves Monogram out of the way of the piano Monty had just dropped)
Monty: Dad! Carl! Are you alright?
Major Monogram: Oh, I'm uh, I'm fine.
Carl: I'm alright too sir.
Monty: Wow, Carl, you saved my dad's life.
Major Monogram: Yes, It's a shame he couldn't save the table too. Let's go find the host--
Monty: Wait. Whoa! What? Seriously?
Major Monogram: What?
Monty: Dad, aren't you going to thank him?
Major Monogram: Oh, well I didn't realize I hadn't. Thank you for pointing that out to me Monty.
Monty: Dad!
Major Monogram: Oh, uh, yes, right. Thank you Carl.
(Carl faints)
Major Monogram: Oh well, more dessert for us.
Candace: No, it's different this time, she promised to come down and meet us!
Linda: Right, my expectations have been completely reversed.
Candace: No you'll see, she'll explain everything. Everything!
(Candace rings the doorbell)
Candace: Heeheeheeheehee... (the woman comes out) Yes! See? Mom, Lady. Lady, Mom. Now tell her everything.
Cop: (Speaking to the woman) You have the right to remain silent, anything you say--
Peggy: Take your hands off me copper. I know my rights. Sorry Candace, water the plant for me.
(She gets escorted away by the cop)
Candace: I don't understand. What's going on?
Cop 2: Police matter miss.
Candace: What could could that sweet old lady possibly have done?
Cop 2: That "sweet old lady" is Peggy "The Pyramid" McGee, the notorious ring leader of Danville's biggest pyramid scheme.
Candace: Pyramid scheme?
Cop 2: That's right, she's been selling these all over town. See? These are just flat triangles, painted in perspective. That's fraud.
Peggy: I'll be out by the time her mom serves pie.
(She is driven off in a cop car)
Linda: Wow Candace, a pyramid scheme right under our noses!
Candace: Yeah, imagine that.
(Through all this, Phineas and the gang pass by on a bike forming a giant pyramid. Neither Candace nor Linda notice)
(At Club Soda, and the Love Sandal concert)
Monty: Hey.
Vanessa: Hey yourself.
Monty: I thought, uh...
Vanessa: Yeah, so did I. But then I figured I couldn't leave you here to suffer alone.
Monty: That's what I like. Thoughtful, and dismissive at the simultaneously.
Doofenshmirtz: (Being tossed around like a beach ball) Nooo! Wait. Wait. Wait. Is that the Love Sandals? Hey, oh, watch the hands lady.

End Credits
(standalone broadcasts only)
(Song: "Pyramid Sports")
♪ Try any sport, now experiment, ♪
♪ Just go and have some fun. ♪
♪ You can do any sport you wish, ♪
♪ Archery, bowling, you can even pyramid fish ♪
♪ I don't care if it's played in a field or on a court ♪
♪ Cause everyone here is in to Pyramid Sports ♪
♪ Pyramid Sports, Pyramid Sports, Pyramid Sports, Pyramid Sports, Pyramid Sports. ♪



♪ Da da da ♪
(Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella are resting under the tree, until Candace walks over)
Phineas: Hey, Candace, doing a little light summer reading, I see.
Candace: This is for the book club Jeremy and I joined. We all read the same book, and then we get together, and discuss over tea.
Phineas: Sounds sophisticated.
Candace: Yeah, the tea was my idea. This week we're reading, The Iliad.
Phineas: That's a great book! It's all about the Trojan War.
Candace: You read this?
Buford: We all did. You're not the only one with a book club you know.
Phineas: I like your idea about the tea though. Ferb, make a note of that.
Isabella: The war started because Paris fell in love with Helen of Troy. It's so romantic.
Buford: Yeah, and Helen could launch a thousand ships with her face! My favorite character was Achilles, the greatest Greek warrior of all time. He had this big fight with Hector. He was all, Wham! Bam! Stab! Stab! Stab!
(Buford stabs Baljeet to prove his point)
Baljeet: Cut it out!
Candace: Isn't there something with a wooden horse?
Phineas: Yeah, the Greek army build a huge wooden horse, and left it outside the gates of Troy. The Trojans thought that the Greeks had given up, and that the horse was some sort of tribute to them. So they wheeled it inside the gates.
Buford: Hey! How'd they get that big horse in that tiny door?
Baljeet: Buford, just try imagining a larger door.
Buford: Oh, okay. Hang on. (Buford pauses to imagine a larger door) Oh, yeah, that's better.
Isabella: Then late at night, the Greeks climbed out of the horse, opened the gate--
Buford: Then it was all; Wham! Zam! Stab! Stab! Stab! (Buford stabs Baljeet again)
Baljeet: Cut it out!
Candace: Wow, it really sounds exciting. I'd better get started. Book club is in three hours. Bye.
Phineas: Wow, she must be a fast reader.
Buford: What gets me, is why did the Trojan War take so long? If I were Achilles, I could've taken the city of Troy, like, in one afternoon.
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! We're gonna finally recreate the Trojan War. I'll be Paris because my name starts with a P.
Isabella: And I'll be Helen because- (Realizing she wrapped her arm around Phineas's) Ah, my... name... starts... with... I which is right after H. (smiles awkwardly)
Buford: And I'll be the great Achilles. And I'll be all; Wham! Zam! Stab! Stab! Stab! (He stabs Baljeet again)
Baljeet: Ahhh! Cut it out!
Buford: (To Baljeet) And you can be Hector, now get over there. I'm taking Ferb.
Irving: (From behind the fence) Hey, everyone! Can I play?
Buford: No!
Irving: I've got baklava.
Buford: Welcome to the Greek army.
Phineas: You know who loves history and historical reenactment?
Buford: Hey, where's your dad?
Lawrence: (while tying his tie) So it goes over, under, around and through. Ooh, lovely. Time to open the shop.
(Once Lawrence walks off, Perry leaps up and steps through a mirror, and proceeds to enter his lair via a "rabbit hole")
Major Monogram: Hello Agent P. I see you used the rabbit hole entrance. Heh, freaks the heck out of intruders. Anyway, no news on what Doof is up to yet we're still awaiting a surveillance report, from our special C.R. unit. Hey Carl! Any news from team Cockroach?
Carl: Nothing yet, sir. We think they may have been scattered.
Monogram: Quite frankly, we fear the worst, which isn't that bad, they're just a bunch of roaches after all. So, we're gonna need you to get over to Doof, and see what mischief he's up to today. Good luck, Agent P.
Buford: (Looking at the Troy Castle) And they say Rome wasn't built in a day.
Irving: Uh, technically, that's not Rome, that's supposed to be Troy.
Buford: If I wanted nerd facts I would've kept Baljeet.
Baljeet: (From the Castle) In case you are wondering, the word you are looking for is, "impenetrable"
Buford: Actually the word I was looking for is decimate!
Baljeet: Fair enough.
Buford: Yeah, we're gonna need a bigger army. Irving break out my recruitment fustanella.
Irving: You mean the little Greek skirt--?
Buford: It's a fustanella.
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
(Perry knocks at the door)
Doofenshmirtz: Coming, hold on. Just hold your horses. Wait. Hello? (He opens the door, and Perry flies in on his jetpack.) Ha! you missed me, Perry the Platypus. (Perry gets caught in a rope net trap) I got you. You see, I was just doing a little inventory and reorganization of all the stuff that I've collected over the last forty years. Yeah, I know it's gotten a little... out of hand. I kinda let it go, and Norm's been in Maui for like, a month, so I made a Declutter-inator. I was actually gonna shoot myself with it, which would make me want to un-clutter everything, and then I lost it, 'cause, you know, it's, it's really cluttered in here. So then I hired a nice young lady named Doreen, to help me get organized, and well, I think she may have gotten lost, too. I haven't see her in days. (Yelling into the clutter) Doreen? Are you out there?
Doreen: So thirsty...
Doofenshmirtz: I never approved overtime!
Doreen: Food...
Doofenshmirtz:So if you'll excuse me I have to get back to my search for Doreen. Maybe I'll get lucky and find the Declutter-inator, too. (Yelling back into the clutter) Hey Doreen? Marco!
Doreen: Water!
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, she really stinks at this.
Buford: Okay, Next! Name?
Balthazar: Balthazar Horowitz, but you can call me "The Ballpit Kid."
Buford: Any medical problems.
Balthazar: Well, I have a perforated A-
Buford: Yeah, yeah yeah, you're in. Get a shield. Come back with it, or on it. Next! Name?
Boy: Dimitri Popaunicolas.
Buford: Any experience being Greek?
Dimitri: Actually I am Greek. I was born on the Island--
Buford: I don't want your life story. Grab a shield, come back with it, or on it. Irving, go get some more baklava, come back with it, or on it.
Irving: I'm on it.
Buford: Yeah? Well get with it.
Candace: (Reading) "Sing, goddess, the anger of Peleus's son, Achilles..." (She dozes off, then shakes herself back awake, and continues reading) "Achilles! And it's devastation, which put pains upon the Achians..." (She doses off again, then jolts back awake, and continues her reading) "Upon the Achians, hurled in their multitude to Hou--"
Buford: (Yelling) Hector!
Candace: Oh for Pete's sake! (She walks over to the window) Buford, I'm trying to tea this! (She sees that large Troy Castle) What the heck is going on out here?
(Cut to show Phineas and Isabella, Phineas is wearing silver and red gladiator armor similar to Paris, and Isabella is dressed in a long gown with her hair in a ponytail and a golden tiara with a jeweled bow, similar to Helen)
Phineas: You've inspired us, Candace. What do you think?
Candace: Are you by any chance reenacting the Trojan War, like in my book?
Phineas: That's the plan.
Candace: Okay, I'll just watch you guys, and take notes for my book club. Buford, continue.
Buford: Hey, uh, Hector? Why don't you come down here, I got something for ya'.
Baljeet: Oh, sweet. I am going down there. (He comes down from the castle) Okay, here I am. What have you got for me?
Buford: Get him!
Baljeet: Oh no, not good. (He runs)
Buford: Eat, hot chariot sucker!
Phineas: Well, so much for Hector.
(Song: Troy)
Soldier: ♪ There was a hottie named Helen and she launched a thousand ships with her face♪
♪ Paris took her home to Troy, and to the Greeks this was a slap in the face ♪
Greek: The Trojans stole Helen!
Soldier 2: ♪ Agamemnon got mad 'cause that just wasn't right ♪
Soldier: ♪ He said, “Hold your Trojan horses, now we're having a fight!♪
♪ And I haven't sacked or pillaged since at least last Saturday night.♪
Horse:♪ And for ten years they were all ♪
♪ Slamming! And jamming! And clashing! And gashing! ♪
♪ And brawling! And mauling! And trashing! And smashing! ♪
♪ When they finally figured out they couldn't take 'em by force ♪
♪ The Greeks all got together, and they hid in a horse!♪
Soldier: Bagpipe solo!
♪ Troy Troy Troy Troy!♪
Baljeet: You know, bagpipes are sort of anachronistic for this time period-
Buford: Quiet, you! Go back to being vanquished!
Phineas, Isabella, Milly, Ginger: ♪ Troy Troy Troy Troy!♪
Milly, Ginger, other kids: ♪ Troy Troy Troy Troy! ♪
Irving: ♪ Troy Troy Troy!♪ Troy? Oh, it's all over.
(At Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
Doofenshmirtz: Doreen? Come out, come out where ever you are. I should have brought some bread crumbs, or something to leave behind me, so I could find my way-- Oh you know what? Better yet, I should've brought a sandwich, cause I am famished.
(Perry, still trapped in the net, cuts through, and activates a GPS, showing how to navigate the clutter maze)
(The greek army Buford had gathered begins to leave)
Buford: Hey, where you guys going? We're not done yet.
Balthazar: I gotta get home.
Girl: I've got a book club.
Dimitri: I've got a balalaika lesson.
Buford: You now they've got a word for what you guys are doing.
Irving: Yeah, it's desertion!
Buford: No, it's-- Oh, no it is desertion. Irving get over here. It's time to execute Plan B.
Irving: Plan B.?
Buford: Yeah, you know the one where you climb into the decoy, and uh...
Irving: Oh, that Plan B.--
Buford: Get goin'!
(Buford rolls a large wooden platypus to the doors of the Troy Castle)
Phineas: A Trojan Platypus? Come on Buford, what made you think we'd fall for that.
Irving: I told you, Buford--
(The Trojan Platypus gets squished by a large wooden T-rex)
Irving: Ow! Why did you have me get in this thing?
Candace: (Watching from her window) Now we're gettin' somewhere.
Buford: Ha, I bet you didn't see a Trojan T-rex with laser cannon mouth, and laser cannon eyes comin'. Did you?
Phineas: Well he's got me there.
Irving: (Now in the T-rex) Seriously, if you were just gonna crush the Trojan Platypus, why did I--
Buford: Leave me my simple pleasures. Now Ferb, destroy Troy! This is why I got Ferb on my team.
(The lasers cut a chunk out of Troy)
Phineas: Uh-oh, looks like Ferb's going off book. Everyone to the chariots. (Everybody loads into the charriots, and they take off to do battle with the T-Rex) Hang on. (Phineas fires laser's out of his chariot, which just bounce off) Whoa, laser proof! Nice touch Ferb.
Candace: This is really cool! (She checks her watch) Book club starts in ten minutes! (She leaves)
Phineas: I have an idea, throw that rope to the other chariot.
(Isabella does so, and the two chariot's wrap the T-rex's ankles)
Buford: Well, that can't be good.
Ferb: Guess they knew that a T-Rex's weakness is also its Achilles' heel.
(The T-rex crashes down destroying both itself, and the Trojan Castle)
Phineas: That was awesome!
Buford: Who won?
Phineas: This time I think it was a draw. Come on, let's go tell Candace how it ends.
Buford: Yeah, and maybe we can pick up some Greek frozen yogurt on the way.
Doofenshmirtz: Doreen? Come on, quit kidding around. Perry the Platypus! You found the Declutter-inator. Excellent. Okay, shoot me. Shoot me and I'll clean this whole place up. Oh, wait, wait wait, What? It's not plugged in? Hold on one second.
Lawrence: (Upon entering the backyard) My word, what a mess.
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, here's an open socket. (He plugs in his -inator) That doesn't sound good. (The -inator sends out a blast destroying some of Doofenshmirtz's lair, and resulting in one beam from the -inator hitting Lawrence)
Lawrence: Ooh, I say, I feel the sudden urge to declutter.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, you have to admit it, it did get rid of the clutter.
Doreen: There you are.
Doofenshmirtz: Doreen! What's happenin'?
Doreen: My invoice. You'll be hearing from my lawyer. (She walks off)
Doofenshmirtz: (weakly) Curse you, Perry the Platypus.
Lawrence: And there goes the last of it.
Linda: Lawrence? What are you doing out here?
Lawrence: Oh, you know, just tidying up a little.
Linda: Well, the yard looks great. Come on in the kitchen. I've got a plate of cake that needs cleaning up.
Lawrence: I'm your man.

End Credits
Jeremy: Now that we're all here, who would like to go first?
Candace: Ooh, me! In general I thought the Greek's decoy platypus was a brilliant idea until it got smashed by the T-Rex. It's use of lasers to destroy the city of Troy really seemed unbeatable, until Paris flew down in his laser chariot. The flying chariots were all; Phew! Phew! Phew! Phew! Phew! Phew! Phew! Gak! Gak! Gak! And Eew!
Boy: Cool.
Candace:  The Iliad is truly an epic.
Jeremy: Candace, you didn't read the book, did you?
Candace: (deadpan) I'm so busted.
Jeremy: Ah, that's okay, I don't think anyone did.
Stacy: (at the camera) I just come to book club for the tea.



(Open on the Flynn-Fletcher house at night decorated for Halloween. Cut to inside where Lawrence, dressed in a gorilla suit, is carving a jack-o-lantern. His sons approach him.)
Phineas: Wow! Looks great, Dad!
Lawrence: Thank you, boys.
Phineas: Come on, Ferb! We have work to do!
Candace: (walking in the background carrying her costume) Nice costume, Dad! See ya after the party!
Lawrence: Oh, yes, you have fun at the castle party tonight. (putting the mask on his head) If you need anything, your mother and I will be here scaring the sugar out of the little trick or treaters.
(Linda comes in dressed as a nurse.)
Linda: Well, how do I look, dear? (Lawrence makes gorilla sounds and bangs his hands on his chest.) Oh, no, a gorilla!
(Cut to the backyard. Agent P puts on his fedora and jumps into a pile of leaves. A leaf blower makes the leaves disappear and we don't see Perry. Cut to Perry's lair, all decorated for Halloween. Major Monogram is onscreen dressed as screen legend Carmen Miranda.)
Major Monogram: Okay, Agent P, who do I look like? Huh, whadaya think? (Perry simply stares) C'mon! Carmen Miranda! Y'know, you really should watch more old movies.
Carl: (entering, also dressed as Carmen Miranda) Sir, I found your dosimeter. It was—What are you doing?!
Major Monogram: Great googly moogly! Is that what I look like?! Wow, suddenly I feel ridiculous. Nevermind, Carl, you can have it.
Carl: (exiting) Sheesh.
Major Monogram: Moving right along: Sorry you have to work on Halloween, but just get out there and see what Doof has planned. I'd give you more information, but, obviously, I've got to find a new costume. Thanks a lot, Carl!
(Cut to Vanessa on the phone with Monty.)
Monty: (on phone) Well, hello, Vanessa.
Vanessa: Hey, Monty, what are you up to?
(Split screen to Monty at a black tie event.)
Monty: I'm just doing a little freelance for my dad. What's up?
Vanessa: I happen to be throwing the biggest, baddest, Halloweeniest bash ever! It's tonight and I think you should come.
Monty: A costume party? Hey, that means we can actually be seen in public together and no one will know.
Vanessa: That's the plan! I'm checking out my Queen of the Vampires costume even as we speak.
Monty: Oooh...
Vanessa: It's pretty cute.
Monty: Great, I'll be there! I'll be dressed as the Scarlet Pimpernel.
Vanessa: The Scarlet what?
Monty: You know, he wears a big red hat with a feather in it. You should watch more old movies.
Vanessa: Well, you know, it's a little known fact that vampire queens love Pumpernels.
Monty: Pimpernel.
Vanessa: Yeah, whatever, OWCA boy.
Monty: See ya tonight.
(They hang up. The split screen widens to reveal Monty standing next to Agent M.)
Monty: Sorry, Agent M. You're on your own from here on out.
Agent M: Ohhhh....
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz's apartment. The doorbell plays the Evil Jingle. Doofenshmirtz approaches the door.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, goody, trick or treaters.
Trick or Treaters: Trick or treat!
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, lessee, what do we have here? Class dunce with a fake scar, and you must be the Princess of Meatland...and...uh, oh, uh, Upset Rooster Head. And what are you supposed to be, a kid in a sheet? (The "kid in the sheet" takes off the sheet to reveal:) A platypus in a sheet? (He puts on the fedora) Perry the Platypus in a sheet?! Do I -- well, uh, that's perfect! Wait, wait, I was hoping you would— (Perry twists Doofenshmirtz's arm) Ow!! Whoa whoa whoa whoa, I'm being sincere! There's no trap, no inator, just come over here, you gotta see this. It was delivered today. (They walk to the balcony to reveal a castle turret outside.) I had to sign for it and everything! (Cut to outside to reveal a rather ancient castle next to the D.E.I. building.) It's a real castle with...with a moat! Who delivers a moat?! How'd they even get that on the plane? It's from my Great Aunt Henrietta Hawkenschpit. She left it to me in her will. L-Listen to this. (reading the will) "To Heinz Doofenshmirtz, You are my only nephew, except for Roger and I hated him." See? See why I liked her? "Therefore, I leave you my castle and hidden inside is a very large treasure!" Huh? (puts on reading glasses) And look! There's a little treasure map with clues! Wanna help me? (no response) Oh, come on! It'll be fun! Take off your secret agent hat just for tonight and put on your adventure hat! (Perry takes off his fedora and puts on a similar looking fedora.) That's my guy! Treasure ho! This is gonna be fun!
(Cut to the party.)
(Song: "Vampire Queens Love Pimpernels" (instrumental))
Vanessa: (offscreen) Welcome to my castle party! Here's a mask. Lacie, wow, great costume!
Lacie: This is a...costume party?
Knight: Sir Grant of the Goth Table has arrived.
Vanessa: You look great, Sir Grant. (gives him a mask) Dragons beware!
Candace: (also dressed as a vampire queen) Vanessa?
Vanessa: Candace!
Candace: Whoops! I guess your party's gonna have two vampire queens! What are the chances, right?
(Stacy enters also wearing an identical costume.)
Stacy: (leaves) I'm gonna go change.
Candace: How did you ever pull this off?
Vanessa: Well, my dad gave me permission to use his castle and then all I had to do was call the best party planners in town.
(Phineas and Ferb walk through the doors.)
Phineas: Ferb, you go get the 4:40 junction box hooked up behind the riser, and I'll check up on the pumpkin crudities.
Candace: Et tu, Vanessa?
Vanessa: I had to. This is a big night for me, my boyfriend's coming. Oh, here he is right now.
(A Scarlet Pimpernel enters.)
Scarlet Pimpernel: Ooh, a vampire! It's a good thing I have my neck covered.
Vanessa: You're not my boyfriend!
Scarlet Pimpernel: Whoops. Heh heh. Sorry, I thought you were my—
Candace: Jeremy, it's me, Candace!
Jeremy: Ooh, a vampire! It's a good thing I have my—
Candace: Yeah, heard you the first time.
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz and Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: Alright, the first clue is in the letter. Let's see here:
"My treasure awaits you, keep on the trail.
A ride up the stairs from under a veil."
What kind of twisted gibberish is this? (Perry approaches a chair under a veil and uncovers it.) That's it! Henrietta's chairlift! Oh yeah! Here, (patting his knee) you can sit here, Perry the Platypus. (Perry shakes his head.) No? Alright, suit yourself. (He activates the chairlift.) We're comin' for your treasure, HenriettAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!! (The chairlift speeds up and flings Doofenshmirtz into the red stained glass window. It seems like he's about to crash and break it, but doesn't. Instead, the window flips over and Doofenshmirtz lands in the moat and takes out a piece of paper.) Ha! I got it! (An alligator arises from the moat.) Yaaaah!! They shipped the alligator, too? Get away from me, Susan! We talked about this!
(Cut back to the party.)
Phineas: These scalloped cheese slices should be staged directly across from the crackers. But overall, nice work. (He approaches Isabella dressed as Cinderella.) Hey, look at you! You're Isabellarella.
Isabella: If I lose a slipper tonight, you know where to find me.
Phineas: (walking away, pointing at something) Ooh, that reminds me...
Isabella: ("accidentally" losing a slipper) Whoops!
Phineas: (offscreen) ...there's some water on the floor over by the sally port.
(The "lost" slipper lands in the punch. Isabella angrily takes the shoe out. Cut to Buford and Baljeet dressed as the front and back end, respectively, of a dragon.)
Baljeet: Buford, it is so hot in here! Can I please have some punch?
Isabella: (saunters past) You don't wanna drink that.
Buford: Y'know, I think we have the best castle party costume.
Irving: (offscreen) Hey, Buford, look at me - (he is dressed as a castle) I'm a castle...at a castle party! Get it? Heh? Heh?
Buford: Yeah. Hey, Windsor, your drawbridge is down!
Irving: Oh, my. (raising his drawbridge) How embarrassing.
(Cut to Vanessa)
Vanessa: Monty should've been here by now. (Another Scarlet Pimpernel approaches her.) Finally...wait, who are you?
Scarlet Pimpernel 1: I'm the Scarlet Pimpernel.
Scarlet Pimpernel 2: As am I!
Scarlet Pimpernel 3: Same here.
All Scarlet Pimpernels: We are all here!
Vanessa: Ugh!
Stacy: (also dressed as the Scarlet Pimpernel) Hey, what's going—Oh, for crying out loud.
(Cut to Phineas.)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb, let's kick this biggest, baddest, Halloweeniest bash into high gear!
(All cheer. Ferb rises onto a DJ's stage and spins a megamix of some of the greatest hits on the show.)
(Song: "Foot Stomp Mash Up")'
♪ I got squirrels in my pants! pants! pants! ♪
♪ Look at them, they're stompin' their feet! ♪
♪ Look, Look at them, they're stompin' their feet! ♪
♪ Look at them, they're stompin' their feet! ♪
♪ stompin' their feet! They're stompin' their They're stompin' their They're stompin' their♪
♪ It's a spa day ♪
♪ Yeah! ♪
♪ Shiatsu— ♪
♪ Gesundheit! ♪
♪ Thank you very much, ♪
♪ We got a salt scrub, a mud tub; what's it gonna be? ♪
♪ A foot bath, a facial, aromatherapy! ♪
♪ It's a spa day! ♪
♪ Yeah! ♪
♪ I got squirrels in my pants! ♪
♪ I got squirrels in my pants! ♪
♪ I'm Lindana and I wanna wanna wanna have fun ♪
♪ I got I got I got squirrels in my pants! ♪
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz and Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: "In the dungeon, you will find
An elevator out of time."
I really don't remember an elevator down here. (An elevator bell dings.) Well, whadaya know? How could I have missed it? (A couple of Shining twins walk out of the elevator.)
"In the elevator, to the top you go,
The next clue is down below."
(The elevator goes up.) Well, that doesn't really make a lot of sense. (The elevator reaches the top floor, which is just a view.) Why did she make us come all the way up here if the clue is all the way down— (The elevator drops like the Tower of Terror ride and drops back into the moat. A hippopotamus rises from the moat.) Wait a second! (Approaching the hippo, which has another clue in its mouth.) Gimme that thing!
(Cut back to the party. Vanessa finally recognizes Monty.)
Vanessa: Now, that is my boyfriend.
(Monty winks at her. They walk up to each other to dance. Cut to Ferb, who takes off his DJ hat to reveal his hair is now gelled. He takes off his black turtleneck to reveal his dapper singer outfit from "De Plane! De Plane!" and puts on a fake mustache and replaces his microphone with a 1940s style version and sings.)
(Song: "Vampire Queens Love Pimpernels")
Ferb: ♪ When a vampire queen locks her thirsty eyes on a Pimpernel, ♪
(Baljeet: ♪ Woooooooooooooooooo... ♪)
♪ And the music casts its ghostly spell, ♪
(Baljeet: ♪ Woooooooooooooooooo... ♪)
♪ It's like waving a blood-red cape in front of a vampire bull ♪(Baljeet: ♪ Woooooooooooooooooo... ♪)
♪ And that's a feeling we all know so well. ♪
♪ I find that I am haunted by you ♪
♪ And you are haunted by me, too. ♪
♪ It's a story as old as time ♪
♪ Vampire queens dig Pimpernels. ♪
(Baljeet: ♪ Woooooooooooooooooo... ♪)
Vanessa: Nice of you to finally show up.
Monty: Yeah, you're not gonna believe this, but all the costume shops were out of Pimpernel outfits.
Vanessa: Oh, I believe it.
(Song: "Foot Stomp Mash Up")
(The song has dialogue under)
♪ Look at them, they're stompin' their feet! ♪
♪ Look, Look at them, they're stompin' their feet! ♪
♪ Look at them, they're stompin' their feet! ♪
♪ Stompin' their feet! they're stompin' their they're stompin' their they're stompin' their ♪
♪ You keep saying that you don't have rhythm ♪
♪ Don't have rhythm, don't have rhythm ♪
♪ You keep saying that you don't have rhythm ♪
♪ That's wings, you turkey! ♪
♪ You keep saying that you don't have rhythm ♪
♪ Don't have rhythm, don't have rhythm ♪
♪ You keep saying that you don't have rhythm ♪
♪ Squ-squirrels in my pants! pants! pants! ♪
♪ You keep saying that you squirrels in my pants! ♪
(Cut to Phineas walking up to a sad Isabellarella.)
Phineas: What's wrong, Isabella?
Isabella: I ran out of shoes. (lifts up her gown to reveal she is now barefoot)
Phineas: Oh, that's okay. (throws off his shoes) It's more fun to dance barefoot anyway. (Phineas and Isabella begin dancing with each other)
(Cuts back to Monty and Vanessa. Monty accidentally bumps into his father, who is now dressed like a knight in shining armor.)
Monty: Oops, sorry.
Major Monogram: It's alright. (His visor drops on his eyes and he pushes it back up.) Monty, is that you?! With the daughter of my sworn enemy?! It can't be!! (Walks up to the Pimpernel next to Vanessa.) Alright, Monty, you've got a lot of explaining to— (the Pimpernel that is talking to Vanessa reveals herself to be Stacy)
Stacy: Oh, hello, Mr. Water and Power Guy.
Major Monogram: I, uh, better check the...uh...thing. Yes. (leaves)
Vanessa: Thanks, Stacy! I owe you!
Stacy: No thanks are necessary for that darned elusive Pimpernel.
Vanessa: Hey, where did Monty go?
Stacy: Oh, he's up there on that window ledge.
(Cut to Monty.)
Monty: (tipping his hat) Until next time, my queen! (He exits dramatically.)
Vanessa: Wow! That was really kind of swashbuckle-y!
(Cuts to outside the castle where it's revealed that Monty landed in the moat.)
Monty: Let's hope she didn't see that.
(Cut back to the party.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) "By luck or by chance, you found your last clue.
Turn the corner, favorite nephew."
Well, uh, what does she mean, "turn the corner"? It's just a flat wall, it's a— What are you doing, Perry the Platypus? (Perry shows a combination lock near the corner of a picture frame.) Oh, the corner of her picture! Give it a turn with your little platypus hands there! (Perry turns the lock and an unlocking noise is heard and bags of cash drop out.) At last!! Wahoo!! I'm rich! I am rich! I am comfortably well off! Don't worry, Perry the Platypus, I won't forget about you. You'll be the next person I invite to my first piñata party!
Man 1: Uh, excuse me, sir, are you the owner of this here building?
Doofenshmirtz: Yes.
Man 1: This area's not zoned for medieval castles. You're gonna have to pay a penalty fee.
Doofenshmirtz: Penalty fee? How much?
Man 1: One canvas bag with a huge dollar sign on it. (Doofenshmirtz gives the man a bag.) Thank you. Here's your receipt.
Doofenshmirtz: At least I still have all this loot.
Man 2: Danville Water Management Department. Can I see your permit for that moat? (Doofenshmirtz gives him a bag.)
Man 3: Bureau of Castle Conservation.
Doofenshmirtz: All right. (gives him a bag)
(Cut to outside the castle.)
Woman 1: (offscreen) Parking fines.
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Here you go.
Man 4: (offscreen) Castle Relocation Authority.
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Yeah, yeah, one for you, too.
Man 5: (offscreen) Ways and Means.
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Yeah.
Woman 2: (offscreen) Means and Ways.
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Take it. Here, just....
Man 6: (offscreen) Tri-State HOA.
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Sure, why not?
Man 7: (offscreen) Department of bureaucracy.
(Doofenshmirtz groans offscreen.)
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house. Some trick or treaters ring the doorbell. Nurse Linda answers.)
Trick or Treaters: Trick or treat!
Linda: Oh, my! Look at all the fun costumes! (passing out candy) Here you go. And here's one for you. And here's one for the little princess. And one for you. Oh, but wait! Don't go away! (singsongy) We have a little surprise for you! (leaves)
(Lawrence jumps behind the door in his gorilla costume scaring the children out of their candy. He takes off his mask.)
Lawrence: Oh, I do so love Halloween!
Linda: We're gonna save a ton of money on candy this year!

End credits
Ferb: ♪ When a vampire queen locks her thirsty eyes on a Pimpernel, ♪
(Baljeet:' ♪ Woooooooooooooooooo... ♪)
♪ And the music casts its ghostly spell, ♪
(Baljeet: ♪ Woooooooooooooooooo... ♪)
♪ It's like waving a blood-red cape in front of a vampire bull ♪
(Baljeet: ♪ Woooooooooooooooooo... ♪)
♪ And that's a feeling we all know so well. ♪



Contents[show]
Introduction
(Open on a rather spooky landscape. A wolf howls in the background. A truck with the sign "The Macabre Book Mobile" pulls up. The sign lifts up revealing a cavalcade of books. A rather grim looking narrator, Mr. Macabre, arises from under with an ominous light beneath him as we hear the "Toccata and Fugue in D minor".)
Mr. Macabre: Hello, children. Welcome to the Macabre Book Mobile. What is your pleasure tonight? How about a fright? Well, you are in luck, because I have three stories that are guaranteed to make you scream with delight. Mwa...Mwa-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! (a hand tickles him with a feather) Stop it! (takes the feather) Enough with the feather, Renfield. We talked about this. Now, knock it off and go stand over there by the Chifferobe. And stay off of those olives. I'm saving them. (zoom in) For company. Mwa...Mwa-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!
Hipster Guy: (offscreen) Uh, excuse me?
Mr. Macabre: What?
Hipster Guy: Can I get a free-range organic grilled cheese slider?
Mr. Macabre: This isn't a food truck, you baboon. It's a Macabre Book Mobile.
Hipster Guy: (takes out phone and leaves) Yeah, I'm totally giving you a bad review.
Mr. Macabre: (shakes fist) May the ancient moths of Sumeria feast upon your skinny jeans! (phone buzzes) One star? Man, that burns. Now where was I? Oh, yes. The first story in our (blood red title appears on screen) Terrifying Tri-State Trilogy of Terror... (notices the title on screen) Oh, for crying out loud! (Takes out a squeegee and wipes off the words, line by line.) Sorry about that. Now where were we?

Ducky Momo Turns Evil
Mr. Macabre: Chapter one. A teenage girl chats idly (Crossfade to the Flynn-Fletcher house.) to her friend alone in her room as a storm rages outside. （A lightning flashes on background) Little does she know what evil awaits her as she discovers how dangerous careless words can be.
(Crossfade to Candace's bedroom. Candace is in a bathrobe and towel sitting by the window with her Ducky Momo doll and Mr. Miggins.)
Candace: (on phone) No, Stacy, I have the whole place to myself. Mom and Dad are at the movies, and the boys are playing ping pong over at Buford's. Oh, so listen to this weird book I've been readin'. "If one repeats this incantation in the presence of a doll, then alive it shall be!" Ha ha! But check this out: "The light of a full moon will make it evil." Oh, (picks up Ducky Momo doll) I'm so totally doing it! Oh, relax, Stacy, it's funny! Ukka-samma-hi, oona-mooda-salla. I will you alive, Ducky Momo! (in a demonic voice) "Candace, this is Ducky Momo! You must buy more of my memorabilia, like my 50th anniversary collector's item bobblehead!" (normal voice) But, y'know, I'm really concerned about its resale value. (puts the doll on her face) Aaah! Help! Help! Ha ha ha! Sorry, okay, just havin' a little fun! (leaves her windowsill and walks to her closet and while at her closet) So, what's up? Y'know I just use this new exfoliating and moisturizing scrub in the bath, which is totally confusing (Candace changes her clothes) because why exfoliate off all the cells you just moisturized?...Weird. (hears something move) Hold on, Stacy. I thought I heard a sound coming from under the bed. (reaches under her bed and a black cat screeches and scurries from under it) Cheese and crackers! Hey, we don't even have a cat. (reaches back under the bed and gets her Ducky Momo doll) How did you get under there? (picks back up the phone) Oh, it's nothing. Ducky Momo must've fallen under my bed. (to the doll) Now stay put. (lightning flash as the doll moves) Okay, so let me tell you about my day with Jeremy. So he picks me up and the same song I've been playing in my room was the same song he was playing in his car! (The doll crawls onto the bed behind her.) The same song! I mean, what are the chances of that? (Candace drops the towel onto the doll.) And then he says, "You wanna get grilled cheeses at that place?" And I was just thinkin' I wanted grilled cheese so he gets one!
(Candace kicks the doll out the window and it lands in the yard. It rises up from under the towel like Frankenstein's monster. A raccoon approaches it and it growls at the raccoon, which scurries away. The doll then looks at the house and attempts to waddle up to it, but gets crushed by a fallen tree branch. Cut to the kitchen.)
Candace: Me? I'm just makin' a snack. Just thought I'd have, you know, somethin' healthy. What? Oh, okay, you caught me. Donuts and cheesy popcorn. (The Ducky Momo doll peers behind the door. The door handle jiggles. Cut to outside as the doll attempts to open the door. The doll reaches into its stuffing and takes out a credit card and slides it through the door. Cut to Candace getting a glass of water.) Ah, Jeremy was so great, he took us out for mani-pedis. (The door opens.) Is someone there? Oh, the storm just blew the door open. Yeah, I know. Creepy. (The Ducky Momo doll attempts to walk between Candace's legs. Candace closes the door with her leg, slamming it on the doll.) Anyway, since Jeremy's mom is a regular at the mani-pedi place, we got special treatment. Yeah, they served us sparkling apple juice and finger sandwiches and made fun of us in Thai. It was all so classy. What can I say? (closes the fridge door with her foot) I love a well-groomed foot.
(Cut to outside as a now disfigured Ducky Momo doll reconfigures itself.)
(Song: "No Mo Mo")
♪ You thought you were alone, ♪
♪ But then you hear a floorboard creak. ♪
♪ And from the shadows you see two crazy eyes ♪
♪ And a little orange beak. ♪
♪ Then you hear a noise that makes your heart skip a beat. ♪
♪ It's the creepy pitter patter of his little webbed feet. ♪
♪ You say, "No, no, no! No Momo!" ♪
♪ Might as well say, "Hello". You can sense that he's near. ♪
♪ But now you know why yellow is the color of fear. ♪
♪ You say, "No, no, no! No Momo!" ♪
♪ (Ducky Mo, Ducky Momo) ♪
♪ You say, "No, no, no! No Momo!" ♪
♪ (Ducky Mo, Ducky Momo) ♪
Candace: Is someone there? (gasps and dials her phone) Stacy, I know you're gonna think this is crazy, but I honestly think something is in the room with me. Have you ever been in a situation where your whole body, like, senses a presence? Like, you can't see it, but it's, like...it's, like, right next to...you? (Zoom out to reveal the Ducky Momo doll on the arm of the couch. The doll quacks and stretches his arms out. Candace screams and runs off.) Upstairs! The only logical escape! (Candace runs upstairs but gets her ankle caught in a curtain. The doll approaches the stairs quacking. Candace screams and bites the curtain off. The doll climbs up the stairs. Candace frees herself from the curtain, hides behind a wall and dials her phone.) Stacy, you gotta help me! The spell from that weird book worked! Ducky Momo is alive and he's trying to get me!! No, he's downstairs. He—Would you stop laughing? Yes, you are! I can hear the milk shooting out of your nose! (She looks behind her and sees the doll and yells, dropping her phone.) My phone! (The phone lands by the doll's webbed feet. It ends the call.) Back! Stay back! Ah! (Takes down a picture) Stay away from me! (Takes down a poster and crumples it up.) You stay away! I'm serious! Uh! (She slides a table across the hall.) Oh, come on! (The doll sees the crumpled poster on the floor and walks around it.) No! He's unstoppable! (Cut to Candace pulling on her bedroom door handle.) Come on! Open! Open! Open! Oh, yeah. It's an innie. (Pushes the door open and pants.) Keep it together, Candace, think! Think think think! Block the door! Block the door! (She blocks the door with everything but the kitchen sink. She then pulls up the doll and screams and hides under her bed.) I didn't really mean to wish you to life! I was just goofing around! I don't understand! What do you want?! (The doll jumps on the bed, reaches out his arms and quacks.) Huh? It almost looks like you want a...a hug. (The doll jumps up and down excitedly.) Seriously? You just want a hug? Well, okay. (Hugs the doll.) But I don't get it. If the incantation made you alive, then the moonlight should've made you evil. (The doll shakes his head quacking and points out the window.) What? What? Oh, the moon was behind the clouds, so you're not evil. (The clouds uncover the full moon shining on Mr. Miggins, who comes to life and roars evilly.) But now Mr. Miggins is!! AAAAAAAAAHHH!!!
(Cut to outside the house as lightning flashes.)

Night of the Giant Floating Baby Head
(Open on the Macabre Book Mobile. Mr. Macabre is playing with an olive in his hand.)
Mr. Macabre: Ah, you have returned for more. (Throws away the olive.) Our second story starts upon a dark and stormy night, where a platypus will soon show an evil scientist that every wish has a twist and the wisher might not wish for what he wished. Mwa..Mwa-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!
(Crossfade to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, where Agent P is climbing the roof and sees Doofenshmirtz reading the Terrifying Tri-State Trilogy of Terror book by an inator. Perry ropes his way down. Doofenshmirtz turns the page. There is an awkward moment of silence until Doof finally looks behind him.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey. (Beat. He finally realizes who is behind him and stammers, almost dropping the book.) Doggone it! You...You should know better than to sneak up on a guy like that! Especially on a dark and stormy night! Anyway, I was reading this weird book, and there's a chapter in here I think might interest you. (Doofenshmirtz shows Perry a chapter. Perry looks at it, but not before Doofenshmirtz closes the book on him.) Ha! Sucker! Surprised you fell for that old "slam the platypus in a book" trick. (places Perry and the book in a shelf) Actually, I'm surprised it took me that long to think of it. Anywho, you should know that that mysterious book that you are trapped in has a very interesting chapter about...♪ Bum bum bum!! ♪...the inexplicable Giant Floating Baby Head! (Thunder and lightning) Wow! That was weird. Wonder if that's gonna happen every time I say, "The inexplicable Giant Floating Baby Head." (Thunder and lightning) Oh, cool! Hey, watch this! The inexplicable Giant Floating Baby HHHHam Sandwich. (thunder and lightning) Ah! Anyway, the chapter says that if you get close enough to touch the...uh, the inexplicable Giant Floating (whispers) you know... (normal voice) you get three wishes. Pretty sweet, huh? The rest of the chapter was devoted to the Giant Floating...Rest of the Baby, but since I've never seen one in Danville, I never finished. So how am I going to get the Baby Head to come to me? Behold! (walks up to the inator) The Inexplicable-Giant-Floating-Baby-Head-Attract-inator! (Thunder and lightning) Everything I know about getting a baby's attention has gone into this inator. (Zoom to top of -inator, a set of keys is on it) Yes! Babies like keys, right? When you shake your keys.(Zoom back) Yeah, it's...it's one of the things they like. (He pushes a button on a remote and the roof opens up. Thunder and lightning as the Giant Floating Baby Head floats up silhouetted. It floats into the light cooing.) It's so horrible! (Walks up to it.) Gently, gently. Don't kill me. Just one...small...touch. (He touches the Baby Head and falls backwards into a pile of empty boxes.) It's gone! (He gasps as he sees that three of his four fingers now have baby faces on them.) Perry the Platypus, look at my hand! It's-It's kind of disturbing, but it worked! I get three wishes! Okay, we'll give this a whirl. I'll use one wish just to test it out. Hmm. I wish for an iced tea! (Poof!) Well, look at that! It worked! Hmm. Not bad, though it could really use some sugar and one of those lemon slices. I wasn't, see, I wasn't specific enough. Oh, right, I forgot, in these kinds of stories, there's always a twist, but, but I'm too smart for that. All I have to do is be really clear about what I want. Like, my next wish, I'll be really sure to clearly say, "I wish to control..." (Perry struggles to get out of his trap and crashes the bookshelf on Doofenshmirtz's foot) Ow! Cheese and crackers! (Poof) Oh, you think you're so clever, don't you, Perry the Platypus, making me waste a wish? Nice try, pal, but what you don't realize is that this guy knows the real waste of a wasted wish is to waste the wish that was wished wastefully. And I am not wasting this wasteful wish. The point is I now have control over cheese and crackers! Cheese, advance! (The refrigerator opens up and several cheeses come out.) Swiss, smoky Gouda, string, individually wrapped cheese food substitute! A'ight? Cheese, snack attack! You, Limburger, h-h-hold on a second, you're a strong cheese. Get this bookshelf off my foot.
(The cheeses fling themselves at Agent P, but miss him. Perry opens a drawer and gets out a cheese grater. A cheese block flings itself at Perry, and, in slow motion, Perry attacks the block with the grater. Perry grates every single block of cheese in the apartment.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, man, if I wasn't so hungry, this would be horrifying. (Perry is surrounded by several strands of shredded cheeses.) Well, you may have shredded it, but you haven't stopped it! (The shreds all come at Perry. Doofenshmirtz laughs evilly. Perry then kneels down and begins eating the shreds.) Oh, I see. I don't know how I forgot that cheese is edible. By the way, I believe you're over the five-second rule there, Perry the Platy— (Perry flings himself at Doofenshmirtz's head.) Ow! Well, I hope you didn't leave room for crackers! Crackers, go get 'im! (A cabinet opens and several boxes of oyster crackers fly out.) Why do I have six boxes of oyster crackers? Must've been on sale. (The boxes open and fire crackers at Perry.) Eh?
(Perry jumps behind a table. The crackers tip the table over. Perry finds a meat grinder on the floor. Using the table as a barricade, he puts the grinder on it. He picks up a box of toothpicks. He puts the toothpicks in the grinder and fires it like a machine gun.)
Doofenshmirtz: Very clever, Perry the Platypus, but let's see how you do against the hard stuff. Parmesan, give 'im a taste of your crystalline texture.
(A big wheel of Parmesan cheese emerges from a floor cabinet and wheels out breaking the table in half. Perry takes off his fedora and gets out a mouse whistle. He blows the whistle and several mice come out of a hole chasing after the cheese wheel.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, so you beat up a bunch of snacks. Big deal. But you forget, Perry the Platypus, I still have one wish left and I've learned from my past two mistakes. I'm going to do this one right! You know what it is I want, Perry the Platypus? I want to be the biggest ruler of the...What? Oh, you're right. I say "ruler" and I could end up being like a big wooden yardstick or something. G-Good catch. Good, good catch, Perry the Platypus. Let me rephrase that. I want to be, specifically, the monarch of—No, no. No, you're right, that's a butterfly. Well, how about, the super-inten—no, no. Wait, wait, I know! I wish to be the head of the Tri-State Area! Oh, shoot, I just heard that!
(Poof! The smoke clears as Doofenshmirtz is replaced by a Giant Floating Doofy Head.)
Giant Floating Doofy Head: Yep. Yep, I'm a head. A big old head, Perry the Platypus. That's what I wished for. (Perry leaves.) Where're you goin'? So what? I don't need your help! That's right! Just walk away,(Agent P walks to the door. He opens the door and leaves with a smiling) Perry the Platypus! Oh, you're giving me the smirk face! Nice, fine! Maybe I like being a giant head, huh? Uh, oh. Uhp, I have to itch my nose! Oh, no! I can't...Ah...AH-CHOO! (The Giant Floating Doofy Head's sneeze causes him to crash into the computer. An inexplicable cat screech is heard.) Ow! Curse you, Perry the Platypus, and you, too, you Giant inexplicable Floating Baby Head!! (Thunder and lightning) Ah, knock it off!

Invasion of the Evil Platypus Clones
(Open on the book mobile. Mr. Macabre is texting on his phone.)
Mr. Macabre: At dot dot dot, "funny what?", add the picture and...(notices the viewer) Ah! Back from the commercial, are we? (picks up the book) Shall I continue, hmm? The final grim installment in our Terrifying Tri-State Trilogy of Terror takes place in an unassuming suburban backyard, where five happy campers and their platypus discover they may not know what they're going to do today.
(Crossfade to the backyard, where Phineas and the gang are in a tent.)
Buford: Suddenly, from out of the shadows, (making a shadow puppet) the zombie bunny rabbit appeared and then he...ate up all the marshmallows!!! Numnumnumnumnumnunmnum!!!
Baljeet: Remember, those marshmallows are for everyone!
Buford: Zombie bunny don't care!
Phineas: Okay, it's my turn to tell a scary story.
Isabella: Ooh! What's it gonna be? Suspense, stalker, horror, action adventure, or my personal favorite, the campy costume alien teen romance comedy?
Phineas: Well, let's see what's in this weird book. "Make a Doll Come Alive," "How to Get Three Wishes," "Giant Floating Rest of Baby"...Hey, check it out! It says here you have to be careful not to spill grape juice on a platypus, or it will make an evil platypus clone. I'm not really sure why anyone would—
(Cut to Buford pouring some grape juice onto Perry.)
Buford: Keep readin'.
Phineas: Buford, stop! (dries Perry off with a towel and bundles him like a baby) Aw, poor little guy. Buford, you shouldn't pour anything on a platypus!
Buford: (offscreen) I just wanted to see what would happen.
(Perry chatters.)
Phineas: (unbundling Perry) Well, he's dry, but now he's purple. (The purple stain jumps off of Perry and creates a purple platypus.) Whoa!
Buford: Cool! It actually worked! (sticking a finger out) Who's my little platypus clone? (The clone snarls at Buford.) What was that all about?
Baljeet: What part of "evil clone" are you not getting?
Buford: Obviously, the "evil" part.
(The evil platypus clone gets hairy and snarls grabs the juice box and runs out of the tent.)
Isabella: I say we take off and nuke the entire site from orbit! It's the only way to be sure.
Buford: Cheese and crackers!
(Cut to outside the tent. Phineas unzips it and the gang walk out with Perry.)
Baljeet: Oh no! Look! They are using our grape juice box to make more!
(The evil platypus clones all snarl at the gang and run off.)
Phineas: Wow, this is such a Halloween thing to happen in the middle of summer.
Isabella: What are we gonna do, Phineas?
Phineas: We have to contain these duplicating evil platypuses somehow. (paces) Uh, we could build a vacuum that attracts only platypus fur. No, no, then Perry would be in danger. Uh, maybe an alpha-ray grid to...No, no...
Buford: (aside to Baljeet) I can smell his brain workin'.
Baljeet: Oh, sure, blame it on Phineas.
Phineas: I dunno, gang. I'm kinda stumped on this one.
Baljeet: Fear not! I know someone who can help us! Follow me!
(The gang all walk out the gate, passing by the evil platypus clones doing damage to police cars, chopping telephone poles and destroying their wires, and...playing a game of tennis? Cut to an old western style building.)
Phineas: I don't get it, Baljeet. Where are we going?
Baljeet: Whenever I need counsel on a problem, I go to my life coach.
Buford: Life coach?! I am so hurt!
Baljeet: (ringing the doorbell) Buford, this man is the embodiment of pure thought and wisdom.
(The door opens revealing a cowboy.)
Cowboy: Well, well, if'n it ain't Baljeet!
Baljeet: Everyone, this is Rusty Britches. Rusty, this is everyone.
Rusty: Well, I'm right pleased to meet you kids!
Isabella: Wha...Howdy?
Rusty: Well, don't just stand there with your hair on your head and your socks tucked into your boots, come on in!
(Cut to inside the house. The gang is seen sitting on barrel chairs drinking glasses of lemonade.)
Isabella: Thank you for the lemonade, Rusty.
Rusty: You're surely welcome! Now, what can I do you for?
Phineas: If I may, Mr. Britches, the city's been overrun by evil platypuses and we can't figure out how to get rid of 'em.
Rusty: Well, that's a real beehive in your well water. Lemme get my thinkin' bench. (He walks off and a loud creaking noise is heard. He comes back and drags a bench across the floor. He puts one boot on it.) Well, it's like old Pap used to say, "When your horse starts drawin' a bath instead of a wagon, it's time to change the welcome mat."
Buford: Does anyone else get the feelin' we're really takin' our time with this thing?
Phineas: Look, Rusty, we really appreciate your colloquial prairie wisdom, but I think we have to move along before things get worse out there.
Rusty: Well, I reckon you know best. It was right fine to meet you... (His foot accidentally tips the lemonade glass on the bench over.) Aw, cheese and crackers! (He gets out a small brush and cleans up the spilt lemonade.) This is supposed to be for cleanin' boats, but sometimes, ya gotta wash with the wrong brush to get a colt to the chaparral.
Phineas: Wash? Brush?
Ferb: Chaparral?
Phineas: That's it! You're a genius, Mr. Britches!
Rusty: Aw, shucks. I'm just a simple cowboy life coach.
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
(The gang build and strap on some kind of cleaning fluid backpacks with nozzles on them.)
Phineas: So since the evil platypuses are made out of grape juice stains and dark magic, these high-powered bubble washers oughta do the trick. Okay, suds up, people! We're goin' platy-scrubbin'!
Rusty: (picking up a guitar) Hey, Phineas, how 'bout some good ol', down-home, granny-slappin', platy-scrubbin' musical accompaniment?
All: Yeah!
(Cut to outside. The gang and Rusty trod out.)
(Song: "Rusty Britches Song 1")
Rusty: ♪ The chips were down, the stakes were high ♪
♪ The kids knew it was do or die. ♪
♪ Ripped to shreds with razor-like claws, ♪
♪ Their doom was all but nigh. ♪
♪ Screamin' in pain, they'd be eaten alive— ♪
Buford: Hey, hey hey hey! What the heck, man?! Ya bringin' us down!
Phineas: It's really...a good song, but, uh...
Isabella: Maybe you could play something a little more, you know, up-tempo.
Rusty: Oh, right! Gotcha!
♪ Well, we were shootin' 'em, washin' 'em, scrubbin' 'em, ♪
♪ Terminatin' all the livelong day, ♪
♪ Happy little kids with a happy little chore ♪
♪ Just a-yodelin' all the way! ♪
♪ (Yodels off-key) ♪
(Before he can finish his song, the evil platypuses jump on Rusty.)
Baljeet: Rusty!
Rusty: G'wan without me! It's like I always say, "You gotta..." (Before he can finish his saying, the platypuses pinch his nose and pull him down.)
Phineas: This doesn't look too good, Ferb! Everybody retreat to that factory!
(Cut to a factory. The gang run up to it. The evil platypuses follow them. Cut to inside the factory. The gang open the doors.)
Phineas: Oh, no, guys! This is a grape juice box factory!
Baljeet: How terrifyingly specific!
(The doors pound.)
Isabella: They're here!
Buford: Run!!!
(The platypuses burst through the door chasing the gang.)
Isabella: There's too many of them! PHINEAS!! (The platypuses attack Isabella and Baljeet.)
Phineas: Isabella!! (Phineas runs back, but gets attacked.)
Buford: I'm gettin' tired of runnin' from these jerks! (The platypuses attack Buford and Ferb.)
Phineas: (voiceover) And so our heroes were ripped to shreds...
(Cut to reveal Phineas back in the tent holding a flashlight under his chin.)
Phineas: ...and left to die.
Isabella: Wait a minute! That was a pretty grim ending, don't you think?
Buford: Talk about your unlightful endings.
Baljeet: He means "delightful" and he means the opposite of that.
Phineas: Okay, okay. I'll give you the Hollywood ending.
(Cut back to the gang in the factory running from the platypuses.)
Phineas: I have a plan. Everyone keep your eye out for the sprinkler system supply housing.
Isabella: There it is!
Phineas: Isabella, you, Baljeet, and Buford hold them back while we get the soap into the sprinkler system!
Isabella: You better hurry, Phineas!
Baljeet: There are too many of them!
Phineas: Oh, no! The manual override is way up there! There's no way I can reach it!
Isabella: Uh, guys, I'm out!
Baljeet: I am out, too!
Buford: What are we gonna do?!
(A bugle fanfare plays and the doors burst open revealing Rusty riding a white unicorn.)
Rusty: Yeehaw!!
Buford: Look, everyone! It's Baljeet's cowboy life coach! On a unicorn! Straining all credulity, he has come to save us!
Rusty: Soap's on, little tykes!
(The soap dissolves all the clones away.)
Baljeet: Rusty, you did it! They are all melting away!
(A bugle fanfare is heard again and the doors burst open revealing a talking grape juice box wearing sunglasses and a police officer's hat with a voice similar to Grunkle Stan's.)
Grape Juice Cop: You've saved my factory!
Baljeet: Look, everyone! It is Officer Concord the Juice Time Juice Box Flavor Cop!
Officer Concord: Well done, everyone! Let's dance!
(Song: "Platypus Walk" (instrumental))
(As everyone dances to the music, the Parmesan cheese wheel and the mice chasing after it from the second story and the Ducky Momo doll from the first story dances with them.)
(Cut back to the tent as the music warps down.)
Buford: Whoa...whoa...whoa.....whoa!! Totally unbelievable!
Baljeet: Which part? The unicorn or Officer Concord the Juice Time Juice Box Flavor Cop?
Buford: Nah. The cowboy.
Baljeet: You do not believe in cowboys?
Buford: Have you ever seen one in real life?
(Scary music plays as Baljeet widens his eyes and looks at the camera, then Isabella, then Phineas, then Ferb.)

Epilogue
(Cut to reveal Mr. Macabre in a bank holding a light under him.)
Mr. Macabre: So, you see, if I had a Macabre Book Mobile, those are the kinds of things that could happen.
Bank Officer: I'm gonna be blunt, Mr. Macabre...
Mr. Macabre: It's Macabré.
Bank Officer: Mr. Macabré, I'm not gonna give ya a loan to buy a Macabre Book Mobile.
Mr. Macabre: And why not?
Bank Officer: You have no detailed records of assets, no inventory, nothing you could use as collateral. Your stories don't even make sense! It's a bad business proposition.
Mr. Macabre: What if I were to say, "Please"?
Bank Officer: That's not gonna work.
Mr. Macabre: Please?
Bank Officer: Get out!
Mr. Macabre: Pretty please with a cherry on top?
Bank Officer: A cherry, huh? Okay, but it is the last loan I am giving you.

End credits
(Rusty is seen playing guitar on the front step of the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Rusty: ♪ All is well that ends well ♪
♪ With a happy little cowboy song ♪
(walking down the steps) ♪ Happy little steps with a happy little— ♪
OW! (trips and falls over) Dangit!! Ah! I'm alright! You go ahead and read the credits. I...I'll just wait down here. (beat) Kinda nice down here, actually. There's a...There's a dandelion. It's all puffy and ready to go. Here ya go. (Blows, and the dandelion seeds float away.) Logo oughta be comin' up any minute. (Cue the logo.) There it is!



(Open on an overhead shot of the Flynn-Fletcher house. We see, Phineas and the gang in their skateboarding gear.)
Phineas: Okay, guys, now you try it. (Isabella jumps over a hydrant on her skateboard.) Nice! (Baljeet does it next.) Very smooth, Baljeet! (A skateboard with no rider bumps into the hydrant.) What's the problem, Buford?
Buford: Well, you know, the sun was in my eyes.
Isabella: Buford, what's with the lack of effort?
Buford: I'm just tryin' to be careful.
Phineas: You?
Buford: Yeah, we're outta credit at the emergency room. My mom said if I break one more bone, she's gonna break the rest of them! Fairly sure that was hyperbole, besides, look how hard that hydrant is!
Baljeet: Well, maybe we could make our own fire hydrants out of soft foam rubber.
Phineas: Hey, that's a great idea! Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today!
Ferb: Seriously? That's it? A soft fire plug?
Phineas: Well, yeah, attached to a giant revolving treadmill with a giant soft neighborhood containing soft obstacles.
Ferb: Oh, yeah, okay.
Baljeet: Where is Perry?
Isabella: What did you say?
Baljeet: I was just asking where Perry is.
Isabella: Oh.
(beat)
Baljeet: What did you think I said?
Isabella: Uh, well, I thought you said...uh...nevermind. It was too weird.
(Cut to Perry in the bathroom. He climbs into the tub with his fedora and floaties on. He rotates the showerhead and a wall raises up. He turns the showerhead on and it speeds into the opening. Cut to outside. The bathtub comes out of the roof. The tub speeds along the road before coming to a traffic signal. A hot tub carrying Peter the Panda and two ladies speeds by. The light turns green. He speeds into the OWCA Plumbing Supply building. Cut to inside. It looks like a garage with the lair monitor inside.)
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah ♪
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah ♪
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah ♪
Major Monogram: Ooh, ooh, oh, get it off! G-Get it off! Ooh! Uh, just walked through a spiderweb. Don't you just hate that? Ya spend the rest of the day worried there's a spider on ya. (shudders) Gives me the willies. Anyhoo, our sources tell us there's a cowboy hat in front of Doof's building. Normally, that wouldn't be of any interest to us, since this is the week of the Danville Hootenanny, but it is a rather large hat and, in spite of its name, the Danville Hootenanny is a dignified affair. I wish I had more information, but Carl said there was a big bee by the surveillance equipment. So get out there, Agent P! Ooh! Carl, is there... (turns around revealing a huge tarantula on his back) is there a spider on my head?
Carl: (offscreen) No, sir. There's no spider...on your head.
Narrator: Meanwhile, at the Danville Space Laboratory...
(The sign reads "Danville Space Labrador".)
Sign Painter: Laboratory?! (makes angry noises, throws his hat to the ground and stomps on it)
(Cut to inside the Danville Space Laboratory where Linda, Jack Johnson, Candace, and Jeremy are taking a tour.)
Linda: Oh, Jack, it sure was nice of you to show Candace and me around. This satellite stuff is very interesting.
Jack: No problem, Linda. I'm flattered you'd be interested in our humble facility, considering your background in astrophysics.
Linda: Oh, yeah, uh, listen, that's kind of a secret, so don't—
Jack: Oh, I'm sorry.
Candace: So what does your father do here?
Jeremy: Oh, he's part of a team that makes and manages recognizant satellites. They actually had a couple of rovers on Mars earlier this summer. But they suddenly stopped working. You wouldn't know anything about that, would you?
Candace: (nervously) Uh, how would I...heh heh...what do you mean? Heh heh.
Jeremy: All right...Your Highness.
Candace: (gasp) Who told?
Jeremy: Stacy.
(Cut to Agent P parachuting to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry approaches Doof, who is sitting outside.)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, Perry the Platypus, I bet you're wondering why I'm cowering outside my lab. Well, day started like any other day. You know, "how am I going to take over the Tri-State Area?" But I suddenly remembered a movie that I saw long ago at a drive-in.
(Flashback)
(Doofenshmirtz watching a movie with gigantic kittens climbing on buildings.)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) It was called Night of the Felis. I knew right away that the old masters were onto something. Imagine taking something cute and enlargening it to frightening proportions. Brilliant! But in order to take over the Tri-State Area, I had to study with some other types of small animals, preferably, something that could fly. And I vowed to get right to work...as soon as the movie was over. The first thing I needed to do was create an inator that would make things larger.
Doofenshmirtz: (in flashback) Eh?
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) I tried it out on my cowboy hat. It was a success! My ten-gallon hat had turned into a 2,000-gallon-hat!
(The hat falls off the balcony, Doofenshmirtz jumps off the hat and clutches to the balcony.)
Doofenshmirtz: (in flashback) Whoa! (crash!) Well, that's the end of that hat.
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) Next, I had to genetically modify a mouse so it could fly.
(In flashback, Doof takes a mouse. The mouse bites Doof offscreen.)
Doofenshmirtz: (in flashback) Ow!
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) Then I decided it would be easier to just use a bat. So I ordered a retired stunt-bat from a low-budget bat circus that had recently gone belly-up. You know...the economy. I was on the precipice of Tri-State Area domination. At last, I had the ultimate creepy soldier! (Derek the bat squeaks) And then I remembered, I had a very mild phobia of bats.
(Doofenshmirtz's eyes pop, literally, and he runs away from the bat.)
Doofenshmirtz: (in flashback) Aaaah!!! Get away get away get away!!!
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) I also had a mild phobia of shellfish.
(At the 'Shellfish Needs' restaurant.)
Waitress: (in flashback, offscreen) Here's your order, sir.
Doofenshmirtz: (in flashback, offscreen) Aaaah!!! Get away get away get away!!!
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) But bats are worse.
Doofenshmirtz: (in flashback) Scram, you flying gerbil! (Derek squeaks) Amscray! (Derek squeaks) You're making me miss the hootenanny!
Norm: (in flashback) Sir, I found your radio. It was embedded in the dashboard of your car.
Doofenshmirtz: (in flashback) Norm, don't just stand there! Do something about this bat! (The radio is thrown, and misses.) Really? That's your solution? Throw a radio at it? Whoa whoa! (cut to Norm about to throw a crowbar) Don't throw that! That's imitatable.
Norm: (in flashback, picking up the inator) What if I hit it with this?
Doofenshmirtz: (in flashback) No no! Don't shoot it with that! That's my—
(Derek gets hit with the inator.)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) And I thought the bat was scary before when he was...tiny.
(End flashback.)
Doofenshmirtz: It was at that point that Norm and I decided to come out here. Plus the bat kinda looks like my cousin, Narthelliot, which, as you can imagine is weird for me. Isn't that about right, Norm?
Norm: (crashed through a hole in the wall) It's even more horrible than it looks!
(Cut to the backyard, where a giant foam wheel is.)
Phineas: Everybody got their helmets and boards?
Isabella: Yeah!
Buford: I'm ready!
Baljeet: I am ready!
Phineas: Okay, Ferb, fire it up! We're going to Foamtown!
Isabella: Woo! Woohoo! Yeah!
(Song: "Foam Town")
♪ There's nothin' that I found ♪
♪ As good as goin' round and round ♪
♪ In Foamtown. (In Foamtown.) ♪
♪ I used to skin my knees, ♪
♪ But here it doesn't matter where I fall. ♪
♪ You'll never get scarred ♪
♪ Cuz nothing's really hard ♪
♪ In Foamtown. ♪
♪ So take a rollin' ride ♪
♪ On a squeezable urban sprawl. ♪
♪ Come on down to Foamtown. (In Foamtown.) ♪
♪ Yeah! ♪
♪ There's no bruises or concussions, ♪
♪ There's no painful repercussions, ♪
♪ There's no braces, there's no bandages, ♪
♪ No hospital stay. ♪
♪ If you jump and try to land it, ♪
♪ You can eat it or face-plant it ♪
♪ And you know that your insurance plan will not have to pay. ♪
♪ Come on down to Foamtown. (Come on down ♪
♪ To Foamtown, ♪
♪ Come on down.) ♪
♪ Just come on down to Foamtown. (Come on down ♪
♪ To Foamtown) ♪
♪ Yeah! ♪
♪ (Come on down!) ♪
♪ Come on down to Foamtown! ♪
(Cut back to Danville Space Laboratory.)
Jack: And over here are the models of our robotically-operated rovers: the Mars rover, the Moonrover, and this is the Irish Rover.
Candace: You sent a rover to Ireland?
Jack: Well, we had to test it somewhere.
(Song: "Irish Rover")
♪ In a land afar in Castlebar, ♪
♪ Many months ago, ♪
♪ We sent an Irish Rover ♪
♪ To look around, you know. ♪
♪ With a too-ra-loo-ra-fiddle-dee-dee ♪
♪ And a too-ra-fiddle-dee-doh ♪
♪ In a land afar in Castlebar, ♪
♪ Many months ago. ♪
Jack: It took a couple of months, but we're finally starting to get some really great pictures back.
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Thank you for the blanket, Perry the Platypus.
Vanessa: (offscreen) Dad?
Doofenshmirtz: Vanessa? Oh, no! Vanessa, get out of there! (Crawling inside) There's a huge bat on the loose!
Vanessa: Really? (Sees Derek shrieking.) Wow, cool! It looks like your cousin, Narthelliot.
Doofenshmirtz: No sudden movements or loud noises, Vanessa!
Vanessa: Dad, relax. It's just a bat. They just eat bugs.
Doofenshmirtz: But it's a very big bat!
Vanessa: Now, come on. J-Just stand up. It's time to face your fear.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, okay. (Derek snarls at Doofenshmirtz and grabs him in his mouth.)
Vanessa: (hitting Derek) No no no! Bad bat! Spit him out!!
(Derek spits Doof out, who is now covered in bat saliva.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, gross! (Derek grabs Doofenshmirtz with his feet and flies away.) Oh, yeah, this is much better!
Vanessa: Dad!! Oh, hey, Perry. I was wondering if you could help me. (Perry grabs his jetpack and activates it.) Thanks, Perry. You're a peach.
(A bat-looking man appears next to Vanessa.)
Bat-Looking Man: So, what'd I miss?
Vanessa: Oh, hey, Narthelliot! We were just talking about you.
(Cut back to Danville Space Laboratory.)
Jack: Of course, even better than using a rover, we have these. We call them global surveillance satellites. No matter where you are on Earth, there's always one of these flying above you in orbit, streaming live video to us here.
Woman at Monitor: That's right. Here's the outside of our building right now. And we can look up any location instantly. The Eiffel Tower, the Taj Mahal...
Linda: So you could look down on anybody's backyard and see what they're doing?
Jeremy: Pretty cool, huh?
Candace: Wow, that's gotta be handy for something.
Jeremy: And three...two...one... (points to Candace in anticipation of her busting idea)
Candace: What?
Jeremy: Really? Alright.
(Cut to the Giant Tire Place. Derek flies through the big tire around and around with Doofenshmirtz still in his clutches.)
Doofenshmirtz: Whoa! Oh, I get it! This is what it does! Flying through a hoop! That's what I get...for buying a bat...from a defunct...bat circus!
(Cut to the Danville Space Laboratory cafeteria.)
Jeremy: So, having fun yet?
Candace: Oh, you know I am. (Sips her drink)
Jeremy: You know, my dad goes on and on about the cafeteria here, and I think he's right. This food is...
Candace: (does a spit take and gasps) I've got an idea! My brothers are probably building something in our backyard right now, and we can use the surveillance satellite to catch them doing it! (runs off) Come on!
Jeremy: I was wondering how long that would take.
(Cut to the big monitor from earlier. Candace sits in the now empty chair with a sign saying "Out to Lunch.")
Candace: Just lemme punch in my address... (The backyard and Foamtown appears onscreen.) Omigosh, I knew it! Look at that thing!!
Jeremy: Wow! What is it?
Candace: it's an eye-in-the-sky bust! Come on, let's go get my mom! (they walk off)
(Cut to Foamtown.)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb, turn it off. Let's take a little break. (Ferb pulls the lever and the wheel stops rolling. Buford falls off of the wheel landing on his back.) You okay, Buford?
Buford: I'm havin' the time of my life! Is anybody else hungry?!
Isabella: I am!
Phineas: C'mon! Let's go see what's in the kitchen. (The gang jump off the wheel.)
(Cut to above the house. Derek and Doof fly up to Foamtown.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh no! Oh no no no! Not again!!! (bang!) Ow, my head! (bang!) Ow, my head again! (bang!) Ow! Now I forgot math! (bang!) Ow! There goes social studies! (bang!) Oh, good, they're back! (Doofenshmirtz's head crashes into the giant bolt revealing the cogs, which loosen and cause Foamtown to roll away.)
(Cut back to the Danville Space Laboratory as Candace and Linda arrive just as Foamtown rolls away.)
Candace: This way, Mom! (motions toward the screen) See for yourself!
Linda: Oh, wow! It's our house! (the screen shows the empty backyard and the kids) And you can see the boys! And their little skateboards! (waves) Hi, boys!
Candace: They can't hear you, you know.
Linda: I know. (keeps waving) Hi! Whoo-hoo!
(Cut to the empty backyard.)
Phineas: Hey, Foamtown's gone.
Buford: You say that like it doesn't happen every day.
Baljeet: And you say that like an angry old prospector.
Buford: What does that even mean?!
Baljeet: (walks away) I stand by that metaphor.
(Cut to a desert where the Old Coot and his donkey are standing.)
Old Coot: Finally, Daisy, we're here. Our new home! Lotsa elbow room and no one to bother us! The last frontier! A place where a man and his donkey can— (Foamtown unravels.) Dangit! Come on, Daisy, we're headin' west.
(Cut to the Millennium Gateway Arch in St. Louis, Missouri. Derek and Doofenshmirtz fly around the arch. Perry jets in.)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, welcome to St. Louis! Now do something about this bat, please! (Perry shoots the inator at Derek and it shrinks back to its original size, leaving Doofensmirtz hanging in midair, then falling.) Aah!! Well, at least I lost my fear of bats!! (Doofenshmirtz crashlands into a shellfish restaurant.)
Waitress: (offscreen) Oh, it's you again.
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Aaaah!! Go away go away go away!!!
Waitress: (offscreen) Oh, just stop it.

End credits
♪ There's nothin' that I found ♪
♪ As good as goin' round and round ♪
♪ In Foamtown. (In Foamtown.) ♪
♪ I used to skin my knees, ♪
♪ But here it doesn't matter where I fall. ♪
♪ You'll never get scarred ♪
♪ Cuz nothing's really hard ♪
♪ In Foamtown. ♪
♪ So take a rollin' ride ♪
♪ On a squeezable urban sprawl. ♪
♪ (Come on down) ♪
♪ To Foamtown. ♪



(Open on the Flynn-Fletcher house. Cut to Candace's bedroom.)
Candace: (on phone) I'm totally sunk, Stace! I've been working on Jeremy's birthday present for months, but it's not even close to as good as I want it to be. (Cut to reveal she's working on a popup book showing their first kiss.) Ugh! Lame!
(Cut to Stacy, who is in a store purchasing many hair bows.)
Stacy: Oh, come on, Candace. You're overthinking this. (The cashier puts a watermelon on the tread.) Jeremy'll love anything you make. What's your worry?
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: I just wanna do something really special to show Jeremy how much I care. Something way over the top! Something that defies the laws of physics and excedes the boundaries of the imaginatio— (realizes what she's talking about) Oh no.
(Cut to Stacy.)
Stacy: Oh, yes.
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: No no no no no! Anything but that!
(Cut back to Stacy.)
Stacy: You're going to have to ask for help from...
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: Phineas and Ferb. (Puts her head in her hand like she has a migraine.) Uggggh.
(Cut to the gang in the backyard with a large popcorn behind them. Perry is eating some popcorn.)
Phineas: Well, now that we've ironed out the bugs in our fusion-powered popper, the popcorn is nice and fluffy...and no longer glowing, so we're good to go. (Candace comes in mumbling under her breath.) Uh, what's that, Candace?
Buford: Lemme talk to her, guys. I speak sullen.
(Buford and Candace have a conversation in mumbled gibberish.)
Buford: Candace messed up and now Jeremy's birthday is ruined.
Candace: Hey!! You completely misinterpreted what I said!
Buford: Nuance.
Phineas: So what's goin' on, Candace?
Candace: (sighs) It's Jeremy's birthday and I wanna do something really special to show I care and you guys are good at doing, you know, what you do, and, well, all I have is this scrapbook and I don't wanna blow it so can you help me, huh? (gives Phineas the book)
Phineas: Wow! This is great! It's like a blueprint! Ferb, I know what else we're gonna do today!
Candace: Great! Start workin' your magic and, no pressure, but it's gotta be PERFECT!!!
Phineas: We'll do our best!
Candace: (mumbling) Thnk yu.
Buford: Oh. She said, "Where's Perry?"
Candace: You have got to work on your sullen!
(Cut to Agent P's lair. Agent P drops into his chair.)
Major Monogram: Hey, there, Agent P! Well, it's Horrific Movie Night at my house where a bunch of agency guys get together and make fun of ridiculously bad movies.
Carl: He's always the guy shushing everybody.
Major Monogram: Well, there's a time for fun and a time to pay attention.
Carl: Pfft.
Major Monogram: Anyway, Agent P, when we went to rent tonight's horrific horror classic, Night of the Living Torso, it was already gone. In fact, all the movies within the horror genre throughout Danville have been checked out, which is definitely a bummer, and could possibly be evil. Go check on Doof and see if he's bogarting those movies...uh, before 6:30 if possible. (Agent P raises his arms up, and a pair of mechanical arms give him his jet pack. He blasts off.)
(Cut to inside the house. Linda is by the stairs. Candace comes down with a box of stuff in her arms.)
Linda: Candace, I'm headed out.
Candace: (trying to not sound suspicious) Okay, Mom.
Linda: What's with the box?
Candace: Oh, uh, nothing. I just wanted to see what this stuff looked like outside.
Linda: Candace, is this a ploy to get me to go outside to see what the boys are up to?
Candace: No!! Er, I mean, uh, no need. (pushing her mom out) Just go out and, uh, feel free to stay for a while. Stay out all afternoon in fact. Heh-heh, heh.
Linda: Reverse psychology. Nice try, hon. Glad to see you changing it up. See ya later.
Candace: Okay, bye.
(Cut back to the backyard. Candace approaches her brothers with the box.)
Candace: So here's all the Jeremobilia I could find. (gives the box to Phineas) Now what?
Phineas: Cool! (Ferb gives Candace a camera) Now just go around town and take pictures of all the Jeremy-related places and things you can. The camera will transmit them back to us to incorporate into our mega-interactive scrapbook-aganaza.
Candace: No problemo! Candace is on field duty, peace!
(Isabella approaches Phineas.)
Phineas: I'm sorry, were you gonna say something? (Isabella shrugs.) Okay.
(Cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Cut to inside. Perry once again breaks down the door and, as usual, gets trapped by a rope. He hangs upside down from it. Cut to Doof watching a woman screaming on his TV surrounded by hundreds of DVDs.)
Doofenshmirtz: (sighs, pauses the movie) Isn't that always the way? Right at the exciting part, that's when the doorbell rings...or, y'know, a platypus breaks it down. Anyway, behold the Worst-Fear-inator! (pause) What? (Doof tilts his head. POV shot from Doof as he sees the popcorn cart is blocking the inator.) Oh, yeah, I-I guess from your point of view, it's a little difficult to see. Lemme just get this outta the way for you. (He pushes the popcorn out out of the way.) There we go. Now, in my never-ending pursuit of domination, I discovered that the best evil rulers used fear to keep people in line. So to get into the right headspace, I did what any logical evil scientist would do: rented all the scary movies in Danville for research. Even the lousy ones like Dead Batteries, which is actually better than its prequel, Batteries That Work, which was...just a bunch of...portable electronic devices...functioning properly.
(Flashback of Doof watching the movies.)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) Once I was terrified, I was able to analyze the fear-based synapses of the brain and extrapolate some wonderful data!
(End flashback.)
Doofenshmirtz: Basically, I shoot someone with the machine, and whatever they are afraid of actually appears...in real life! Whadaya say, Perry the Platypus? Ya like being a guinea pig? Actually, you'd look kinda cute as a guinea pig. I mean, I wonder if you'd be teal. I bet you would. I bet you'd be a cute little teal guinea pig. Something to think about for the future. Anyway, Perry the Platypus, let's fire this baby up and see what scares you. (He presses the button activating the inator.) 'Cause, y'know, it's gonna materialize right over there. (A green beam hits Perry.) Alright, so what are you afraid of, where is it? (looks around) What the hay? Nothing? (A business card slips through the ropes. Doof takes the card and reads it.) "Perry the Platypus: O.W.C.A. agent - Fearless." Huh. That figures. I guess you'll just hafta...hang around! Ha ha ha! Oh, wait, this one's better: I'll just leave you here because you're all tied up! Ha ha ha! W-W-Wait, one last one, you're gonna love it: See ya later because it isn't my tail that's upside down! (No response.) No? No no, I shoulda stuck with the first two, you're right.
(Cut to downtown Danville. Candace is wandering around with the camera.)
Candace: Ooh, score! That awning is the same color as Jeremy's eyes! (snaps the photo) Aaaand...daffodils! Just like the ones he gave me on our third date! (Snaps the flower.)
(Cut to the backyard. Phineas, Ferb and Isabella are by the computer receiving the pictures Candace took.)
Phineas: Incoming. Perfect! Same color as Jeremy's eyes! Huh, flower. I'm drawin' a blank.
Ferb: Daffodil, third date.
Phineas: Riiiight...Now the machine will take the images, and print them into giant scaled-up form.
(A printer prints out a flat daffodil, which folds itself into an oragami daffodil, and emits a scent.)
Buford: Nice touch! Smells like my grandma!
Phineas: I thought your grandma smelled like ant pheromones.
Buford: Naw, that's the other one.
Phineas: These should really make Jeremy's Birthday Scrapbook-aganza a full sensory experience!
Buford: (sarcastically) Great, just what I always wanted: to fully sense Jeremy.
(Cut back to the florist.)
Candace: Okay, what else? Ah! (She walks up to a couple drinking outside a French café. She takes the man's mug.) 'Scuse. Hot cocoa! (Snaps the mug and sips.) Not bad, although Jeremy prefers it with a little more cinnamon. (Walks away.) I gotta make a note of that for the boys.
Man: I guess my fortune came true. "You will share your cocoa with a long-necked teenager." See? Right there.
Woman: Mine just says, "Your boyfriend's gonna get a fortune cookie at a French café."
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Get ready, Perry the Platypus! The Tri-State Area's about to confront its fears! (Evil laughter from Doof. Another business card with mechanical arms and legs slips through the rope and crawls up to Perry's tail. A laser beam shoots through the robot and burns the rope down, freeing Perry. He kicks Doof.) Aaah! Ow ow! I landed on my jawbone, right under that weird...sticky-outy part under your ear! And my jawbone landed on the remote. Ah, Doof. (The inator activates and shoots Doof.) Okay, nothing bad will happen as long as I don't think about anything scary or... (A pounding on the door is heard.) Oh no! I couldn't help it, it just popped in there! It can't be! (The door breaks down revealing evil vending machine robots.) Vending machines are taking over! I said it could happen! No! Stay back! Stay back! Back! Flee! Flee! (Doof attempts to escape, but the vending machines grab hold of him.) No no no no! I'm not really hungry! Really! (Stutters) No no, not the tiny vanilla cookies! How long have those been in there?! (The machines force feed Doof a packet of vanilla cookies.)
(Cut to the backyard. Candace walks up with a hard hat and a clipboard.)
Phineas: Hey, Candace, the scrapbook-aganza is complete! Plus, we got Love Händel to come in for a live soundtrack!
(Whip pan right to reveal the band.)
Danny: Okay, guys, performance level! (Strums the intro)
Candace: I'm gonna need a test run so I can make notes.
Phineas: Sure. You're the boss.
Candace: That's right.
(Candace walks up to the gondola, which activates.)
(Song: Giant 3D Scrapbook)
Love Händel: ♪ The way you play guitar, that crazy octave reach, ♪
♪ Your uncle's meatball sub, we must have eaten two each ♪
♪ Here's where you ate that soup and got that stomach flu. ♪
♪ Your blue eyes make me melt with a wink, ♪
♪ You're always so polite, you never say when I stink ♪
♪ It's a giant 3D scrapbook, and it's all about you. ♪
♪ I know that I can be high-strung, ♪
♪ Enough to make a lot of boyfriends flee, ♪
♪ But you're still here with me now ♪
♪ Let's make some more memories. ♪
♪ Let's make some more memories! ♪
♪ You had hunky ankles in that sandals commercial, ♪
♪ The time you saved that tree, it was so controversial, ♪
♪ It's a giant 3D scrapbook, ♪
♪It's a giant 3D scrapbook, ♪
♪ It's a giant 3D scrapbook, and it's all about you. ♪
♪ And it's all about you! ♪
Phineas: That sounded great guys, but it's a B-natural in the chorus!
Danny: Toldja!
Bobbi: That's what I was playing!
(Cut back to D.E.I. Perry is walking out leaving Doof with his fear.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) No! No! Not that! Anything but the fake red licorice! It tastes like... (Doof grunts. Perry stops walking and figures he has to save Doof.) No! What possessed me to make such a horrifying inator?! (Perry jumps on the DVDs and hops onto the inator aiming it. He lands on the floor and hits the remote. The inator hits the vending machines. A giant nickel rolls by and the machines run for their lives.) Well, I guess now we know what scares vending machines.
(Cut back to the backyard.)
Phineas: Well, Candace, do you think Jeremy will like it?
Candace: (seriously) Yeah, I just have a few notes here. (Excitedly, as she reveals she drew a smiley face on the clipboard.) It's perfect! (gasps) I love it, guys! Iloveitiloveitiloveitiloveitiloveitiloveitiloveitiloveitiloveit...
Phineas: (to Ferb) She had me at "smiley face".
(Cut back to Doof and Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, you're back! (walking up to the inator) I am never setting that puppy off again. (He presses a button, and, as usual, the inator activates and aims across town.) Oops.
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: It's really perfect! (The beam hits Candace.) I'm glad Mom's gone for the day 'cause my biggest fear is that this is just gonna fly away before Jeremy gets here. (car horn honks, Candace gasps) And there he is! (runs off) Woohoo!
Baljeet: Uh, did anyone else see that weird green beam?
Buford: I wasn't gonna mention it.
(Cut to the gate. Candace runs out.)
Candace: Jeremy!! Jeremy Jeremy Jeremy Jeremy Jeremy!!! You gotta see what the boys built in the backyard!!! (drags him)
(Cut to the backyard as the Scrapbook-aganza flies away like Candace predicted.)
Candace: (runs up) No no no! No no!! It's gone! My worst fear has come true! I totally blew it!
Jeremy: Let me guess, you had your brothers build me something super cool for my birthday and now it disappeared. It's okay, I get it.
Phineas: We don't have the invention anymore, but here's what we used as a blueprint. Candace designed it herself.
(Phineas gives Jeremy the scrapbook, which he opens on the page showing their first kiss.)
(Song: Regular Sized Scrapbook)
Love Händel: ♪ It's a regular-sized scrapbook and it's all about you. ♪
♪ And it's all about you. ♪
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oops. I really meant to hit the self-destruct button. I'll just get this for you. (Kaboom!) So, uh, you need your parking validated or, uh... Oh, oh, you found a spot on the street! Huh! Lucky you! Curse you, Perry the Platypus and all that! You know.
(Cut back to the backyard.)
Phineas: Isabella, you've been awfully quiet all day.
(Song: Watchin' and Waitin' (instrumental))
Isabella: (looks at her watch) I have just earned my 24 Hours of Silence Patch! I can see why you don't talk much, Ferb. I actually quite enjoyed it. I ended up having an inner dialogue with myself all day.
Ferb: Welcome to Ferbland.
(Zoom in on Ferb's brain.)
Ferb head #1: Yes, the universe is constantly expanding.
Ferb head #2: But what is it expanding into?
Ferb heads: Ooooooh...
Ferb head #3: Okay, now my mind is blown.

End credits
Love Händel: ♪ The way you play guitar, that crazy octave reach, ♪
♪ Your uncle's meatball sub, we must have eaten two each ♪
♪ Here's where you ate that soup and got that stomach flu. ♪
♪ Your blue eyes make me melt with a wink, ♪
♪ You're always so polite, you never say when I stink ♪
♪ It's a giant 3D scrapbook, and it's all about you. ♪
♪ And it's all about you. ♪



(In the backyard, Buford, Baljeet, Phineas, and Ferb watch as Lawrence uses his steam powered metal detector to search for buried metal objects.)
Phineas: What've we got so far?
Ferb: I've got a bottle cap and a brass nail.
Buford: Two bottle caps and a nail.
Baljeet: A washer, a hinge and a nail.
Phineas: I've got a nickel and a piece of brass! No, wait, it's a nail.
Lawrence: You never know what you're going to find.
Buford: I do, another nail.
Baljeet: Or a bottle cap.
Isabella: (Walking into the backyard) Hi Phineas, What'cha doin'?
Phineas: We're looking for stuff with Dad's steam-powered metal detector.
Isabella: Wow. An antique that locates other antiques.
The steam-powered metal detector goes off)
Lawrence: Oh, we've got another one!.
Buford: Ooh! Let me dig it up.
Lawrence: Of, course, let me put this down.
Buford: (As he digs) Wait! It's not a nail. It's a coin.
Lawrence: Well, let's have a look then. Oh, yes. I've seen this before. It's a commemorative coin from the nineteen hundred and three Danville World's Fair. Many steam-driven devices were introduced to the world back then. It must have been quite an event...
(At the 1903 Danville World's Fair)
(Song: "Professor Elemental Future Past")
Professor Elemental: ♪ Welcome to the future, all you forward-thinking socialites, ♪
♪ Delightful world and steam so bright, ♪
♪ Change your life overnight, ♪
♪ Behold this lady's hairbrush, this motor-powered cow, ♪
♪ If you don't know how this gizmo works, I'll try to show you how. ♪
♪ It's robotic kitchens, prototypes, a singing kettle, ♪
♪ You'll love this nut and turtle shell made of living metal, ♪
♪ You'll never need to settle for yesterday's future, ♪
♪ We've borrowed from tomorrow, steam power, it's so super! ♪
♪ Welcome to a brave new world (bright world!), ♪
♪ The future is an amazing time for you to climb aboard! ♪
♪ Welcome to a brand new day! (Hooray!) ♪
♪ Everything will change! Time for me to show the way! ♪
Step in closer, I've got so much to show you.
♪ A robotic rooster starts the morning, ♪
♪ And a rocket-powered cycle takes you skyward and you're soaring ♪
♪ 'Til you fall towards a lovely picnic made of future food, ♪
♪ Steam-powered sandwiches, useful speaking fruits. ♪
♪ You are living in your prime, catching lightning in a jar, ♪
♪ Robot butlers keep you tidy, no matter where you are, ♪
♪ The future runs like clockwork and you never need to stress, ♪
♪ You really can afford it: That's the price of steam progress! ♪
♪ Welcome to a brave new world (bright world!), ♪
♪ The future is an amazing time for you to climb aboard! ♪
♪ Welcome to a brand new day! (Hooray!) ♪
♪ Everything will change! Time for me to show the way! ♪
Professor Elemental: You there sir. Yes you there, with the excellent hat, and that hand. You're clearly a man of taste. Step up here would you? Take a look at this marvelous machine.
(Phineas and Ferb circa 1903 leave the world's fair)
Phineas: Wow. The future's gonna be amazing. Flying machines. Household electrification. Steam-powered submarines.
Ferb: Personally, I'm looking forward to cheese that comes in aerosol cans.
Phineas: Still hard at work, Dad?
Lawrence: (With his steam-powered metal detector) Well, hello there, my young fellows.
Phineas: Find anything good yet?
Lawrence: Oh, just dome old civil war coins.
Voice from the Civil War Coin: The Union assaults against the Sunken Road eventually pierced the Confederate center, but the Federal advantage was not followed–
Phineas: Dad, dad. I'm sorry, we've got uh, chores to do.
Lawrence: Oh yes, yes. Go ahead, boys. Don't let me stop you.
Voice from the Civil War Coin: As I was saying. In th–
Candace: (Singing) ♪ Oh, I'm a trudgin' to get some water, down this old and dusty road. I reckon they'll be more someday, then just three sticks and– ♪ (To Phineas and Ferb) Wait a minute, wait a minute. You should be doing your farm chores. Milking the cows, mending the fence, shucking the corn, plowing the fields, and milking the cows again. You can't just stand around, you know.
Phineas: Actually, Candace, we were thinking about a way to do our chores using modern steam technology. We learned all about it at the world's fair.
Candace: Oh did you now? Well if I didn't have to haul water, sweep the barn, collect eggs, spin a quilt, and do whatever this is; I'd tell mom. (She walks off)
Phineas: I wonder if she knows those buckets have holes in them.
(Isabella and Baljeet come up)
Isabella: Hello, boys. We would like to inquire as to what you are doing at this moment.
Phineas: Well, as we were just telling Candace, we were just about to create a steam-powered machine that will help with our- Hey, where's Sweary?
Sweary: Honk! Honk!
Buford: Found 'im! Found 'im!
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Sweary the Swan!
Sweary: Honk!
Buford: Man, that pet of yours gives me the creeps.
Phineas: Come on Buford. you know swans don't do much.
Buford: Don't do much? The big bite on my butt begs to differ!
(Sweary waddles off behind the barn and opens up a zoetrope)
Major Megaburns: Good morning Agent S. This is Major Megaburns. Your arch-enemy, Professor Von Doofenshmirtz, has been spotted creating something evil in his laboratory. Go check it out.
Carl: Perhaps Sweary would want to try my new steam-powered jetpack. It's very heavy and full of boiling hot water.
Megaburns: Hey, wait a minute. How come your zoetrope image is so much cooler than mine?
Carl: It's not "cooler" sir. It's just got more frames.
Barbershop Quartet: ♪ Doofenshmirtz...Doofenshmirtz...Doofenshmirtz...Doofenshmirtz...Doofenshmirtz Evil Amalgamated! ♪
Von Doofenshmirtz: (Talks loudly) Ah, Sweary the Swan, how completely unforeseen is your -- Uh, hang on a second. (turns off a large machine behind him) Ah, that's better. Sweary the Swan, how completely unforeseen is your presence here, and by that, I mean, completely foreseen! (Sweary attempts to bite von Doofenshmirtz) Hey! No bites. I've got a little something for you.
(Sweary is grabbed from behind by von Doofenshmirtz's robot)
Pnorman: Well, hello there.
Von Doofenshmirtz: Allow me to introduce to you my sidekick, Pneumatic Pnorman. And both of those are spelt with a "P". You know, the... The "P's" are silent. I don't even now why they put them in there, if they're not gonna pronounce it. It's just a waste of a good letter. That's what it is. But, I babble. Back on topic.
Pnorman: Shall I put this cucumber in the salad, sir?
Von Doofenshmirtz: That's not a cucumber Pnorm. I'm sorry about that, Sweary, he has problems identifying objects. Pnorm, that's a swan, and we're going to tie him to the railroad tracks.
Pnorman: How melodramatic.
(Sweary squawks at Von Doofenshmirtz)
Von Doofenshmirtz: Wow! Do you preen your feathers with that mouth? They should call you Sw- Oh! Oh, I get it. Swear-y the Swan.
Phineas: Okay, we're all set, Ferb, start her up! (Ferb pulls a lever, and the chore doing machine begins work.)
(Song: Quirky Worky Song (Old-Time Version))
Phineas (cont'd): Shuck the corn. Milk the cows.
Isabella: Mend the fences.
Phineas: Lastly, plow and seed the field.
Candace: I feel like I've been carrying these buckets all summer. I'll never get to the fair in time to meet Jeremy. (She hears Phineas and Ferb's machine from behind)
Phineas: Hey Candace!
Candace: Is that a steam-powered chore doing device?! You are so going to get it! Get back here you steam-punk!
Phineas: Sorry Candace, it won't stop 'till we run out of coal!
Candace: I shall go fetch Mother! (drops her milk buckets and runs off) Ma!
(At railroad tracks)
Von Doofenshmirtz: Sweary the Swan, did you know that the world's fair is in town? They have all of this amazing, new technology. Here, look. It's all represented here, on this commemorative coin– (Sweary the Swan bite's Von Doofenshmirtz's thumb) Ow! Now look what you did! You made me drop it. Pnorman, go find that coin.
Pnorman: It's probably right at your feet, sir. I can't bend over without pulling my axle out of alignment.
Von Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, whatever, think of something. Anyway, like I was saying before you bit my thumb, down at the fair they have all these neat, new steam-powered gizmos that they plan to use for "progress." Normally I wouldn't mind, but they're also attaching a lot of "hope" and "optimism" to progress. And that is something I will not put up with. So I've built a big, monster machine to smash their world's fair to bits! Behold! It's an evil swan! (von Doofenshmirtz reviles his machine) It's a- it's a big swan. It's like you, but, you know, bigger, and hammer-y-er. It's got more hammers than you do. Plus, it runs on the new technology of steam!
Pnorman: (Returning with Vanessa in his arms) Sir, I found your coin.
Von Doofenshmirtz: That's not a coin. That's my daughter, you dolt!
Pnorman: No wonder she wouldn't fit in the gum ball machine.
Von Doofenshmirtz: You hear that Sweary the Swan? That is the sound of–
(Von Doofenshmirtz is cut off by a whistle of steam coming from his evil swan) ... aerosol cheese!
Pnorman: We didn't hear what you said!
Von Doofenshmirtz: (In another steam whistle) Oh for Pete's sake!
Candace: (offscreen) Ma!
Linda: (Churning butter) Oh, these new gadgets are so complicated. Up and down, and up and down, and up–
Candace: (runs up to her) Ma! Ma Ma! The boys! Machine to do their chores! Not fair!
Linda: (sarcastically) Oh my. That sound exciting. I'll come have a look, as soon as I'm done doing, whatever this is.
(At the World's Fair)
Farmer's Wife: I don't believe it. A fuzzy doll in the shape of a bear? It's the end of decency.
Farmer: You didn't believe in me or anthropomorphism.
(The house of the future behind them explodes, as Von Doofenshmirtz's swan breaks through it)
Man: (Running away) Everyone run! It's a big, hammer-y swan!
Von Doofenshmirtz: Ha! Soon you will all see the power of my– (He is drowned out by another whistle of steam)
Man 2: We can't here you!
(At the train tracks Sweary cuts through the ropes tying him down, and grabs onto the train that was about to crush him)
(Von Doofenshmirtz's swam tears apart the Lumiere Brothers Real Motion Pictures tent)
Auguste Lumière: Look! A huge, rampaging, steam-powered, hammer-y swan! If only there was a way we could record this event!
Louis Lumière: Auguste! You have just invented the moving picture documentary! Quickly, mood music!
(Music starts as Louis begins filming the events in a silent motion picture style)
(Von Doofenshmirtz scares some fair goers, a screen reads "Now you will all feel the wrath of my...")
(He is cut off by another steam whistle, and passerby motion that they can't hear. A slide reads "Can you hear what he's saying" then another saying, "No. No I can't")
(Sweary swoops down onto Professor Von Doofenshmirtz, and pulls off his mustache. A slide reads, "HONK!" then another soon after saying, "You eat corn with that mouth?")
Farmer: This sure is a lot of shucked corn, and fresh milk.
Phineas: All in an afternoon's work.
Farmer: Aren't you a bit young to be industrial revolutionaries?
Phineas: Yes. Yes, we are.
Farmer: As a simple farmer from a bygone age, that's good enough for me. Alright Spartacus, let's get these good to market, and then it's back to the bookcase for ye'. (Spartacus the horse whinnies, and the two of them leave)
Phineas: All our chores are done and it's still light out. What else do you guys wanna do today?
Baljeet: We could drink lemonade and sit on the porch.
Buford: We can go to Panama and start diggin'.
Isabella: We could formally begin courting.
Phineas: What?
Isabella: Nothing.
(Sweary the swan come around, and drives off with the boy's creation)
Candace: (Showing Linda) They built a giant machine that does their chores. It shucks the corn, and it shoots seeds out of a gatling gu– (She stops, seeing that machine is no longer there) But, but, but...
Linda: Candace, it's 1903. We do not use that word.
Von Doofenshmirtz: (To the Lumière brothers) No, no, you're not getting my best side. But here, let me show you my worst side! (von Doofenshmirtz's swan eats the camera and Louis with it) What? Sweary the Swan! (Sweary the Swan shows up, driving Phineas and Ferb's chore doing machine directly at Von Doofenshmirtz) Ah, you want to play swan chicken, ah? (Sweary rams into von Doofenshmirtz, then backs up for another go) Oh no, get back here! (Sweary uses the chore doing machine to shuck corn into von Doofenshmirtz's robot) Oh no! He's using the old quad maneuver. 
(Von Doofenshmirtz's swan lifts off and then explodes) Curse you, Sweary the Swan!
Lawrence: And that's the way it was at the Danville world's fair.
Phineas: A giant steam-powered hammering swan? Come on, Dad, that sounds a little far-fetched for the time period, doesn't it?
Lawrence: Oh, yes. Yes, it does.
(Professor Von Doofenshmirtz falls from the sky)
Von Doofenshmirtz: Man, how long was I up there?

End Credits
(Song: "Professor Elemental Future Past)"
♪ Welcome to the future, all you forward-thinking socialites, ♪
♪ Delightful world of steam so bright, ♪
♪ Change your life overnight, ♪
♪ Behold this lady's hairbrush, this motor-powered cow, ♪
♪ If you don't know how this gizmo works, I'll try to show you how. ♪
♪ It's robotic kitchens, prototypes, a singing kettle, ♪
♪ You'll love this nut and turtle sheller made of living metal, ♪
♪ You'll never need to settle for yesterday's future, ♪
♪ We've borrowed from tomorrow, steam power, it's so super! ♪
♪ Welcome to a brave new world (My word!), ♪
♪ The future is amazing, time for you to climb aboard! ♪
♪ Welcome to a brand new day! (Hooray!) ♪
♪ Everything will change! Time for me to show the way! ♪



(Open on the Flynn-Fletcher house. We hear the standard opening guitar riff. Pan left to reveal it is being played by Danny Jacob.)
Danny Jacob: Dude, somebody's gotta play it, right?
(Cut to Candace's alarm clock waking her up. She turns it off and gets out of bed.)
Candace: You know, universe? If you're gonna give me practically unbustable brothers, you could have at least made them not morning people. Yeah, I see ya down there. Hey, where's Perry?
(Cut to Agent P's lair. Perry enters clearly very tired and chattering wearily.)
Major Monogram: Sorry you had to pull that all-nighter, but we really appreciate you filling in for Agent Q. With most everyone at Agent-Con this week, we're, uh, a little shorthanded.
(Cutaway to Agent-Con with every agent, including Peter the Panda, Pinky the Chihuahua and Lyla Lolliberry waiting in line for registration.)
Lyla: Yet again, I am the only girl.
(Cut back to the lair.)
Major Monogram: Anyway, Agent P, Doofenshmirtz has been experimenting with energy fields and it's starting to get dangerous. It knocked out our microwave oven. Get out there, Agent P, and right that ridiculous wrong. (Perry gets up and tiredly walks to his spy car. Monogram holds up a breakfast burrito on a plate.) This breakfast burrito is like a bean and cheese icicle except that it's larger and wrapped in a tortilla.
(Perry gets in his car and turns autopilot on.)
(Cut to the backyard.)
Isabella: Hey, Phineas! Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Hey, Isabella! You're just in time to help us build a zip-line tennis game across town for the ultimate game of sky tennis!
Ferb: Or skennis for short.
Phineas: Now that you're here, we can play doubles for twice the fun!
Buford: I'll be the judge of that.
Phineas: Perfect! 'Cause we need you to be the line judge.
Buford: Judge? Cool! Do I get one of those powdered wigs?
Baljeet: No.
Buford: Ah, I'll do it anyway.
(Cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(The spy car makes its landing in the building.)
Norm: Woof! Woof! Intruder approaching! Woof! Woof, woof!
Doofenshmirtz: Good boy! I love this new guard dog software. It's about time, Perry the Platypus. I was beginning to think you found another evil scientist to fight. Oop!
Perry: Zzzzzzzzzz...
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, what a little angel. I'll just have to tell you my evil plan subliminally, like, like when people listen to foreign language CDs in their sleep. I did that once and now I can totally speak Portuguese to sleeping people. Anyway, recently, I was musing to myself about how lucky my brother, Roger, is.
(Flashback to Doof playing darts with his brother's face as the bullseye.)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) Luck is called "stinkelkrampen" in Drusselstein and it turns out I never have any of the good kind. Turns out that every object has a positive or negative energy field. I harness that positive and negative energy and created...
(End flashback)
Doofenshmirtz: ...the Stinkelkrampen-inator!
Perry: (yawns) Zzzzzzzzz...
Doofenshmirtz: Shh shh shh shh shh. You see, what I'll do is I'll zap myself with good luck and then I'll go zap Roger with bad luck, then I will ascend to become the Mayor of Danville and then I will rule the ENTIRE TRI-STATE...
Perry: (yawns) Zzzzzzzzz...
Doofenshmirtz: I will rule the entire Tri-State Area. Aw, man, Norm, I told you, on the paper! On the paper! (Cut to reveal that Norm is drawing on the wall) Bad dog!
(Cut back to the backyard.)
Phineas: Looking good, guys! All we need to do is hammer in this last nail and we'll be ready to go. (The gang gets zapped by the Stinkelkrampen-inator and the top of the hammer falls off.) Huh, that's odd. Glad I always carry a spare. (The hammer falls off and hits Ferb's shoe.) Whoa! Good thing you're wearing your steel-tip sneakers.
Ferb: Actually, today I'm not. (beat) Ouch.
(Cut back to Doof and the still sleepy Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: And that is how the bad luck setting works. Except, of course, I won't be shooting random blasts off the balcony. Now, check out the good luck settings. And, again, I won't be just shooting it off the balcony like this. (He shoots it.)
(Cut to Candace at her vanity.)
Candace: Time to embark on my daily 500-brush-stroke marathon to manageable hair. (She gets zapped.) One...What the—? (Takes out a protractor to measure her hair.) A perfect 40º angle? (smiles) I can't believe it! A perfect hair day! I finally got my PHD!
Lawrence: (carrying pillows) Oh, that's wonderful, honey. Not a single day goes by when I don't appreciate my PHD.
Candace: That's great, Dad, but I'm not talking about a degree.
Lawrence: Oh, neither am I.
Candace: Time to take my perfect hair to a bust show. (Cut to downstairs. Her phone rings.) Hello? You're kidding! I won a random contest to sing backup for Love Händel at the Danville 24 Hour Music Awards?! Sweet! Perfect hair day? Backup singer for Love Händel? That could only mean... Wait. Lemme try one last thing. (Falls backwards. Wide shot to reveal she landed on two pillows. She gasps.) Pillows magically appear to break my fall! It's true! I'm finally having good luck!
Lawrence: I was using my PHD. My Pillow Hurling Dexterity.
(beat)
Candace: Meh. Still lucky. (gasp) I'll actually be able to bust Phineas and Ferb today! Oh, wait. Mom's at that weekend-long plant-potting retreat. (Her phone rings.) Hi, Mom! The seminar's over already?
(Cut to Linda.)
Linda: Yeah, apparently, you just put some dirt in a pot. I don't know why I cleared my whole schedule.
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: Great! See you at four! (off the phone) Yes! Today is the day that I bust Phineas and Ferb! Woohoo!
(Cut back to the backyard. The structure falls apart.)
Phineas: I just don't get it. Everything we try to do either falls apart, breaks, or somehow ends up backwards.
Baljeet: I know this goes completely against all logic and therefore makes it totally out of character for me to say, but I think you may have been cursed with bad luck.
Phineas: (gasp) Bad luck?!
(Dramatic organ music plays. Zoom in on Phineas' face. Whip pan right to reveal Danny Jacob now playing the keyboard.)
Danny Jacob: Dude, I call 'em like I see 'em.
(Whip back to the gang.)
Phineas: Hmm, bad luck. That's a new one!
Isabella: It happens. There's not much you can do about it.
Phineas: No! There is something we can do about it! If we can create algorithms to predict bad luck, we can make allowances for it and still have fun!
Baljeet: Just like the failsafe systems on space capsules or airplanes!
Phineas: Exactly! We'll make having bad luck fun!
Isabella: Cool!
(Cut to somewhere downtown. Doof is standing by his van with a still sleeping Perry in a little red wagon holding his inator.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, it's time to go. Luck and cover. (He shoots himself with the inator and chuckles.) Good stinkelkrampen tickles! (gasp) Look, a penny! It's working! Aw, man, tails! Well, you know the rules, Heinz. Turn it over for the next person.
Man: I say, a lucky penny! Thanks for the flip, old bean. Here is a thousand dollars!
Doofenshmirtz: (squeals) It worked! Hee hee! Ooh, time to give Roger a dose of bad stinkelkrampen he'll never forget!
(Cut back to the backyard, where the gang is on top of the structure.)
Phineas: Okay, team, all failsafe systems are in place. Go! Yeah!
(Cut to the roof of a building where identical twin sports announcers are placed.)
Sports Announcer #1: What a great day for sky tennis, huh, Markus?
Markus: Or "skennis" as the locals call it, Mark.
(Cut back to the action.)
Mark: (voiceover) Phineas and the gang have the ball in play so here we go!
Markus: (voiceover) Lob to Phineas and Ferb as Phineas sets up for a powerful return! Ooh, looks like Baljeet is set up perfectly for—
(Baljeet's zipline snaps and he falls.)
Baljeet: AAAAAAAAHHHH....
Markus: Oh no!
Mark: What rotten luck! Let's just hope Baljeet survives the fall. But Isabella is right there with the save!
Markus: (voiceover) And apparently, so is Baljeet. A beautiful airbag maneuver, Mark, which bounces him right back into the game.
(Cut to Doof's van. He places the sleeping platypus in his seat.)
(Song: The Good Life (instrumental))
Doofenshmirtz: Down you go, Perry the Sleepapus. (He turns on the ignition.) And away we go! (All the traffic lights turn green.) Sweet!
Food Truck Lady: Free samples?
Doofenshmirtz: (takes some) Thank you! Mmm, mmm, I could get used to this good luck thing. It's better than having a genie. That was a mistake.
(Cutaway to a genie after he's transformed Doof into a giant wiener.)
Wienershmirtz: That wasn't a wish! It's just a song! It's not even a song! It's a jingle!!
(End cutaway.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ugh. Y'ever try to sue a genie? Oh, you're asleep. W-Well, let's try to see what kind of tunes are on the FM dial.
(Song: Dancing in the Sunshine)
♪ The sun is shining down on me ♪
♪ (Dancing in the sunshine) ♪
♪ Every day a jubilee, ♪
♪ Swingin' from a cherry tree. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (while the song plays) Hey, I love this song! I guess I shouldn't be surprised at this point, but what the hey?
(Cut to a montage of Lucky Candace as the song continues.)
♪ What has this day got in store? ♪
♪ (Dancing in the sunshine) ♪
♪ Above the clouds I'm gonna soar ♪
♪ And then I'm gonna eat a s'more. ♪
♪ Whoa-oh-oh-oh, dancing in the sunshine, ♪
♪ Whoa-oh-oh-oh, dancing in the sunshine. ♪
♪ Smiles stretching miles long ♪
♪ (Dancing in the sunshine) ♪
♪ Got my fav'rite flip-flops on, ♪
♪ My SPF is super strong. ♪
♪ My hair blows in the summer breeze, ♪
♪ (Dancing in the sunshine) ♪
♪ I'm groovin' with some retirees ♪
♪ With cartoon bandage on my knee. ♪
♪ Whoa-oh-oh-oh, dancing in the sunshine, ♪
♪ Whoa-oh-oh-oh, dancing in the sunshine, ♪
♪ Whoa-oh-oh-oh, dancing in the sunshine, ♪
♪ Whoa-oh-oh-oh, dancing in the sunshine. ♪
♪ Whoa-oh-oh-oh... ♪
♪ Shine... ♪
(Cut to City Hall. The van pulls up.)
Doofenshmirtz: I love it when the song ends right as you reach your destination! Not to mention the free cans of almond brittle that I got during the chorus. (Cut to inside City Hall.) Well, hello, Roger.
Roger: Hello, Heinz. What can I do for you?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, little brother, you have had nothing but good luck your whole life, and I'm here to even things up for once!
Roger: Oh, Heinz, the power of positive stinkelkrampen is the result of hard work, strong networking and thoughtful actions in matters both business and personal.
Doofenshmirtz: Pfft! I prefer to inator my way to success...just like I wrote in my book! Available in dollar bins everywhere!
(Cut back to the game.)
Mark: Now let's see what Ferb can do with Isabella's blistering smash. Wow! I've never seen a racket spontaneously become unstrung!
Markus: Ferb's shot is headed straight for Isabella and she...
(One of the wires snaps.)
Mark: (voiceover) Oh, that is a tough break! She's flying right past the gap. This is absolutely amazing!
(Cut back to the roof.)
Janitor: Hey, do you guys have a permit to do sports commentary on this roof?
Markus: We...totally have one.
Mark: We do.
Markus: (getting out of his chair)It's in the production truck downstairs.
Mark: (also getting out of his chair) Which totally exists. Let's get outta here!
(Cut to the living room where Candace is sitting in her chair reading a book.)
Linda: (offscreen) I'm home!
Candace: Hi, Mom!
(Cut to the front door where Linda is carrying a familiar looking potted plant and a bag of mulch.)
Linda: I know you wanna drag me to the backyard right now, Candace, but can it wait until I repot my new plant?
Candace: (offscreen, sarcastically) No prob, Mom, Take your time.
Linda: Oooookay....Uh, thanks, hon. I—Oof! (She bumps into a jacket and a fedora drops onto the potted plant revealing itself to be none other than Planty the Potted Plant himself!) Oh, how cute! My new plant looks like a little secret agent! Huh. How about you guard this alcove, Mr. Secret Agent Plant. (giggles)
(Planty goes down the alcove into Agent P's lair.)
Major Monogram: Sorry, Planty the Potted Plant, but apparently your cover's been blown. I'm afraid you'll have to be repotted with another family.
(Planty wilts sadly.)
(Cut back to City Hall.)
Doofenshmirtz: Alright, Roger, prepare to suffer the bad luck of the dra— (Roger gets up from his desk) Hey, hey, hey! Hey, wait! Wait a minute! You're s'posed to stay still for a good inatoring!
Roger: Aw, but I just realized I haven't said hello to your little platypus friend.
Doofenshmirtz: Careful. He gets a little testy if you wake him up from his nap too soo— (The floor creaks and Perry suddenly wakes up.) Uh oh.
(Perry attacks Doof.)
Roger: Aw, yes. I'm not a morning person either.
(Cut to the backyard.)
Phineas: Great game, guys!
Candace: (from below) Hello, brothers! (cut to her with a pie) I made you a pie...for your Bust Day!
Phineas: Well, that can't be right. (takes out a flyer) Bus Day isn't until next week. (Cut to the flyer which reads: "Celebrate Bus Day Next Week" with a yellow bus with a happy face on it) Guess she's getting a head start.
(Cut back to City Hall where Perry is beating the youknowwhat out of Doof. Doof throws his inator away and Perry destroys the pack on his back.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh no. Now my luck's gonna go back to normal...which is, of course, bad!
(Cut back to the backyard, where Candace is inexplicably dancing with her pie, oblivious to the rays revolving around her and the kids.)
Candace: Just take your time, it's not like the earth is gonna open up and s-wallow it, (chuckles, tosses pie in the air) not today! (splat!) Oof. (gasps) Oh no! That means... (runs into the house) MOOOOM!!! MOM MOM MOM MOM!
(The earth opens up and swallows the structure.)
Phineas: And right after Candace said that couldn't happen.
Buford: Yeah. That's borderline creepy.
Linda: Candace, you still haven't explained why you're covered with pie.
Candace: Oh, just come on, this will explain everything! A-bu-bu-wuh?
Phineas: Hi, Mom!
Candace: A-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu...but...
(Cut to Doof outside City Hall.)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, my luck may be back to normal buit at least I still have an entire trunk full of delicious almond brittle. (Opens a can and fake snakes pop out.) Ugh. Mental note: Never accept canned confections from a guy in a clown suit.

End credits
♪ My hair blows in the summer breeze, ♪
♪ (Dancing in the sunshine) ♪
♪ I'm groovin' with some retirees ♪
♪ With cartoon bandage on my knee. ♪
♪ Whoa-oh-oh-oh, dancing in the sunshine, ♪
♪ Whoa-oh-oh-oh, dancing in the sunshine, ♪
♪ Whoa-oh-oh-oh, dancing in the sunshine, ♪
♪ Whoa-oh-oh-oh, dancing in the sunshine. ♪
♪ Whoa-oh-oh-oh... ♪
♪ Shine... ♪



(Open on the Flynn-Fletcher house. Cut to Candace on the phone in her favorite chair.)
Candace: Hey, Stace, feel like coming over for some pre-bust strategizing?
Stacy: No can do. Gotta babysit. Why don't you call Jeremy?
Candace: Oh, he's doing some sports thingy. Eh, it's not my thing.
Stacy: Ooh, a whole day without Jeremy and you're not obsessing about it? Who are you and what have you done with Candace?
Candace: Silly BFF, Jeremy likes me for who I am. It's like we're one. When I breathe in, he breathes out. His heart says, "Knock knock" and my heart says, "Who's there?" and the answer is, "Us!" (giggles) Remember those days when I was always panicking about (Phineas, Ferb and Isabella pass with baseball stuff) what he thought or what he would or wouldn't like? Ancient history.
Stacy: That was yesterday.
Linda: Candace, I'm going to the store, do you need anything?
Candace: Nah, I'm good.
Linda: Okay.
Candace: Oh, wait, I am out of toothpaste.
Linda: All right.
Candace: And deodorant.
Linda: Got it.
Candace: Oh, and pimple cream, loofa pads, body tape, hair dye, cucumber slices, fungal cream...
Linda: You know what, why don't you just come along so I don't spend the whole day in the teen hygiene aisle?
Candace: Someone has to be around to bust Phineas and Ferb!
Linda: Candace, they're playing baseball. It's not exactly a punishable offense.
Candace: Oh, but it will be! (shakes fist) It will be!
Linda: Think of it this way, Candace: the faster I shop, the sooner I come home to bust the boys.
Candace: (getting out of the chair) What are we waiting for? (grabs her mom's arm) C'mon, c'mon! Chop chop!
(Cut back to Stacy, still on the phone)
Stacy: Hello...? Hello?...Hellooooo?
(Cut to the backyard.)
Phineas: Okay, Isabella, keep your eye on the ball. (She hits it.) Whoa! Great hit!
Isabella: Power Hitter Patch: check!
(Baljeet enters with the ball on his head. Buford follows.)
Baljeet: Your analysis of the pitch's angle and trajectory was most impressive.
Buford: Only you can nerdify a great sport like baseball!
(Buford flicks the ball off Baljeet's head.)
Baljeet: Buford, hitting a baseball involves the basic principles of (graphics appear above his head) velocity, force and geometry.
Buford: (offscreen) You're visualizing numbers in the air again, aren't you? (Buford pushes the floating graphics into the ground.)
Phineas: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! We can use geometric algorithms to build the ultimate batting challenge.
Baljeet: (to Buford) Well?
Buford: It's not as bad when he does it.
Baljeet: (sighs) I cannot argue. So where is Perry?
Phineas: Oh, he's at home. (Whip pan left to reveal Perry standing on home plate chattering.) He's not doin' much. What's over here?
(Perry steps off home plate, an elevator appears and he goes down to his lair.)
(Cut to Agent P's lair, where a badly shaven Monogram is onscreen. Agent P drops in his chair.)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P. As you can see, I, uh, I've had a little shaving mishap with this defective electric razor. Just not comfortable with my eyebrows moving independently of each other.
Carl: (offscreen) But you are rockin' the reverse mohawk, sir!
Major Monogram: Get with it, Carl! The hip kids call it a "hawkmo". Anyhow, Agent P, retail stores all across the Tri-State Area are reporting a huge influx of returned faulty items and, coincidentally, (shot of Doof whistling with an inator waiting on line is shown onscreen) Doofenshmirtz has been spotted at customer service counters. (Monogram reappears onscreen.) I have a hunch that these two unrelated things may just be related! Now go find out if Doofenshmirtz has anything to do with this! Also, find out if anyone is actually calling it a "hawkmo" and, if not, please get that started!
(Cut to a shot of the Super Duper Mega Superstore. Cut to Linda and Candace shopping)
Candace: Ugh, this is taking forever! We'll never get home in time to bust the boys!
Linda: I'll tell you what, how about you shop for your own things and then meet me at the register?
Candace: Ooh, great idea! (runs off)
(Cut to Candace in another part of the store.)
Candace: Hygiene, here we are! Okay, lip wax, pimple cream, fungal cream... Wow! Running out of all my most embarrassing personal hygiene products on the same day. Ooh, right, deodorant! Oh, now, which Ducky Momo deodorant did I use? Hmmm... (Takes one off the shelf and looks around) Well, there's only one way to be sure. (Uncaps the deodorant and sniffs. She puts it back on the shelf and smells her own armpit.)
Jeremy: Hey, Candace! Whatcha doin'?
Candace: Uh, heh, hey, Jeremy, um...yeah...I'm just trying to reach the top shelf.
Jeremy: Allow me. (He reaches up top for something, while Candace pushes a basket away) Here you go, one nose hair clipper. Do you want me to put it in your basket?
Candace: No, I mean (nervous giggle) That's not my stuff! That's my Mom's. I'm shopping for my Mom. Yeah, heh... my mom has really unruly, uh, nose hair! Yeah, really bad, okay? Uh, yeah, I...I was just on my way to the, uh... (whip pan right to where Candace is looking, cut back to Candace pointing at the sign) ...the water sports section.
Jeremy: I didn't know you did water sports, 'cause I'm going to the Extreme Water Park today. Wanna come?
Candace: Yeah, cool! Y'know, 'cause I'm so down with the ten-hanging and whatnot. (giggles) Yeah.
(Cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Cut to inside. Perry drops down on the floor, only to be trapped by a clearance sale sticker that says "Clearance - $1.99 - Price Slashed!".)
Doofenshmirtz: Aha! Consider yourself marked down! Handy little shopping device, isn't it? Anyway, you're gonna love this segue, Perry the Platypus! All of my broken inator parts were messing up the feng shui of my apartment. (Whip pan to a Chinese guy pushing a bonsai in a vase out of the way. Cut back to Doof.) Thanks, Larry! (To Perry) My feng shui consultant. To keep my chi in balance, I came up with this. Behold! The Back-to-the-Store-inator! Now instead of waiting in those ridiculously long lines at the return counter, I scan each item (he scans an item and it disappears) and presto! It's transported back to the store where I bought it!
(Cut to a return counter. The guy behind it puts up a sign saying "Back in 10". The inator part lands on him.)
Counter Guy: Ow!
(He flips the sign, and it now says "Closed".)
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: And here's the best part, Perry the Platypus: I get a cash refund deposited directly into my pockets. No banking necessary. (A cash register is heard dinging as several coins appear in Doof's pockets.) The only flaw is that the refunds come in pennies. Y'know, sometimes, I don't really think through the functionality of these things.
(Cut to Aqua Maximus, an extreme water park built like the Coliseum in Rome.)
Jeremy: (offscreen) Wow, this place is intense! (Cut to Candace and Jeremy on surfboards at the top of a water slide.) You ready, Candace?
Candace: T-T-Totally. (She giggles nervously as she looks down at the bottom.) Who in the world designed this?
Ride Operator: Couple of kids, actually. One had a triangle head.
Candace: Wait, what? (The ride operator releases the surfboards and we hear Candace scream.)
Jeremy: Woohoo!
(Cut back to the house. We see a fairground batting cage in the backyard. Cut to the backyard. Phineas and Isabella are in an announcer's booth and Buford, Baljeet, Ferb and the Fireside Girls are playing baseball on the field.)
Phineas: Welcome, sports fans! We have a great game for you today!
Isabella: (overexcited) It's the most extreme batting experience ever!!!
Phineas: The game is simple: Each level is worth ten points. The higher the level the harder it gets. The first one to hit the target at the top wins!
Isabella: It's survival of the fittest! A test of wills! Only one contestant will survive!
Phineas: No, no, no, (chuckles) everyone will survive.
Buford: You're goin' down, dweeb!
Baljeet: I will beat you. It is a mathematical certainty.
Isabella: It's extreme!!! It's EX-TREEEEEME!!!
Phineas: I don't know how extreme it is. It's, you know, big but it is still just a batting cage. Let's...not oversell it.
Isabella: Gentlemen, start your engines!!
Phineas: No, no, they...don't have engines. (Cut to Ferb next to an automatic pitching machine labeled the Lob 9000.) Oh...Oh, I guess Ferb...Ferb has an engine. Forgot about that.
(Song: Extremely Extreme)
♪ It ain't mild or moderate, safe or secure, ♪
♪ It ain't meek or mellow, docile or demure, ♪
♪ It ain't peaceful or placid, sedate or serene, ♪
♪ What it is is ex-ex-ex-extremely extreme! ♪
♪ Conclusively decidedly, exactly, for sure, ♪
♪ Precisely, emphatically and definitely, ♪
♪ Unconventionally and unambiguously ♪
♪ Ex-ex-ex-extremely extreme! ♪
♪ Extremely extreme! ♪
(Cut to Candace lying on the beach. Her cell phone rings.)
Candace: Ugh. Hello?
(Cut to Linda back at the store waiting in line at the register.)
Linda: (angrily) Candace, I've been waiting at the checkout line for a half hour! Where are you?
Candace: I'm at the extreme water park with Jeremy.
Linda: What?! And it never occurred to you to let me know?!
Candace: Sorry, Mom.
Linda: Well, I expect you to be home by the time I get back to put everything away!
Candace: Yes, Mom. Ugh!
(A wave comes in and Jeremy lands on the sand.)
Jeremy: Wanna go again?
Candace: I gotta go home.
(Cut back to D.E.I. Perry literally slashes his markdown with a coupon as he escapes.)
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah ♪
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, very resourceful, Perry the Platypus! Using coupons to cut prices! Hey! (Perry jumps on the inator and it activates.) N-N-Not my baseball card collection! No!
(Cut to a trading card store. The collection gets zapped to the counter.)
Counter Guy 2: Yes! I told you genies were real, Sheila...wherever you are.
(Cut back to the fight.)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, man, you have no idea how much that was worth! (Kaching!) Although, judging by the jingling— (Perry hits him) Ow!
(Cut back to the backyard.)
Isabella: Buford and Baljeet are tied!
Phineas: And Buford steps up to the batter's box!
Isabella: Folks, you can cut the tension with a child-safe knife!
Phineas: Here comes the pitch! Yes! Looking good. Looking great. Looking fantastic! (The ball misses the target.)
Isabella: Denied!
Buford: Ugh!
Phineas: Baljeet eyes up the target as he steps to the plate. Readies himself for the pitch. And...Wow! What a trajectory!
Isabella: But not enough power!
Phineas: A disappointed Baljeet walks away.
Isabella: Oh, it looks like this game could go into sudden death!!
Phineas: It could just be a tie.
Isabella: No, sudden death!!!
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, man, not my new flat-screen! (Kaching!) Hey, no way! I paid way more for that TV! (Doof falls backwards and breaks a part of the inator with his back. The machine malfunctions and goes haywire zapping randomly.) Hey, wha? Ow! Ow!
(Cut back to the store.)
Carl: (offscreen) I would like to return this electric razor.
(Cut to the return counter to reveal Carl with a receding hairline and a torn-up lab coat with Monogram and his bad hair day. A kitchen sink appears near the counter.)
Major Monogram: Are you sure ya read the instructions, Carl?
(Cut back to the backyard. Baljeet is showing a demonstration on a chalkboard with Buford's image, with a right triangle next to him and many mathematical lines above the triangle.)
Buford: And you're showin' me boring math equations why?
Baljeet: Buford, these equations show that if we combine your brawn with my brains, we can conquer the final target together!
Buford: Do my ears deceive me? Are you sayin' we should work together?!
Baljeet: I know! My ears cannot believe it either!
(Cut to Jeremy's car pulling up in front of the house.)
Jeremy: Looks like we made it back before your mom.
Candace: Yeah, sorry to have to rush— (gasps) I knew Phineas and Ferb were up to something! (Linda's car horn honks.) Mom's here. (She somersaults out of the car.) Just in time to bust the boys. Mooom?!!
Linda: (gets out of the car) Don't poke the bear, Candace! You're in enough trouble as it is.
Candace: But, but, Mom—
(Cut back to D.E.I. An inator ray goes off. Cut back to Candace and Linda, the inator ray hits the bags in the trunk and they disappear.)
Linda: Now let's take these inside before the frozens turn int— (realizes the empty trunk) Oh, shoot! I must've left the other bag at the store.
Candace: Mom, just turn your head, and look up! (The car drives away) But...but...but... (Jeremy approaches Candace) but it's right...there!
Jeremy: Are those batting cages?
Candace: (Grabs him.) Come on, Jeremy, (runs to the backyard) there's still a chance to bust them.
(Cut to the backyard. Baljeet is measuring Buford's bat.)
Buford: Dis betta work, dweeb!
Baljeet: Just follow the trajectory I plotted out and I promise you will hit the final target! We can do this!
Buford: Optimism makes me angry!
Baljeet: (offscreen) Use it!
Phineas: (offscreen) Here comes the pitch!
(Buford hits the ball in slow motion. We hear Randy Newman-esque music in the background.)
Isabella: Whoa! This might be the big one!
Phineas: Folks, it's the power hit of the evening! But is it gooooood? (The ball hits every level in the cage and finally goes in the target.) It's goooooooood!!!!!
Isabella: Whoo!
(Everyone cheers.)
Buford: Yeah! Yay!
(Jet packs appear out of the target, and the cages fly away, just in time for Candace to fail. The cages launch into the sky and fireworks appear.)
Buford and Baljeet: Ahhhhh...
Ferb: Oooooo...
Phineas and Isabella: Ahhhhh...
(Candace growls.)
Jeremy: Awww... You'll bust 'em next time, tiger.
(Cut to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Y'know, chasing's not much of an option with my pants full of pennies. (Cut to inside to reveal Doof's pants pretty much about to explode.) Ah, well, live and learn. (An inator beam fires, Perry uses a picture of Doof to deflect it and it fires at Doof. His clothes disappear, but his underpants and pennies don't.) 'Least you hit my clothes and not me. I wonder what happens if a person— (Another beam hits Doof.)
(Cut to the hospital room seen in the flashback from "Raging Bully". Doof appears in the arms of a male nurse.)
Doofenshmirtz: Drusselstein. Hmm. Curse you, Perry the Platypus, and my wretched, wretched life.
(Cut back to the backyard. Everyone is leaving.)
Phineas: Wow! Way to go, guys!
Baljeet: I guess we can work together after all.
Buford: I hate to say you're right...so I won't.
Baljeet: Fair enough.
(Perry appears on home plate chattering.)
Phineas: Oh, there you are, Perry!
Ferb: Safe at home.
(Perry chatters again. Cut to Candace and Jeremy.)
Candace: And what a waste.
Jeremy: Hey, the day's not a total loss. We had a great time at the water park. Wanna go back tomorrow?
Candace: Uh, I have a confession to make. The only reason I said I liked extreme sports was because I was embarrassed that you caught me buying all that hygiene stuff for myself.
Jeremy: Aw, nothing you do could be that embarrassing.
Candace: Oh, Jeremy. (They hug. Candace farts.)
Jeremy: Candace, was that you?
Candace: It's a normal bodily function, Jeremy. Get over it. (walks away)
Jeremy: (follows her) Wait, wait, I thought it was cute!

End Credits
(standalone broadcasts only)
♪ It ain't peaceful or placid, sedate or serene, ♪
♪ What it is is ex-ex-ex-extremely extreme! ♪
♪ Conclusively decidedly, exactly, for sure, ♪
♪ Precisely, emphatically and definitely, ♪
♪ Unconventionally and unambiguously ♪
♪ Ex-ex-ex-extremely extreme! ♪
♪ Extremely extreme! ♪



(Scene opens on a city landscape.)
Adrian: (voiceover) Welcome to the 48th Montevillebad Grand Prix Pre-Race Show.
(A title appears on screen saying "THE XXVCVXVIIC MONTEVILLEBAD GRAND PRIX PRE RACE SHOW".)
(Cut to the house. Lawrence is wearing a pleather jumpsuit and puts on his helmet.)
Lawrence: Linda, darling, it's starting!
(Cut to the announcer's booth.)
Nigel: Coming to you, of course, from the coast of glorious Montevillebad.
Ian: A name that translates roughly as "mountain village bath" in a variety of European languages.
(Zoom out to show the living room TV. Cut to Linda also in a pleather jumpsuit with a platter of hors d'oeuvres.)
Linda: Seven hours of racing jargon and mindless statistics, here we come!
Lawrence: Ooh, snacks!
Linda: Mm-hmm, and they're race themed.
Lawrence: Well, vroom vroom!
(Cut back to the race track.)
Nigel: And there's our pole-sitter, international racing legend, Paolo Vanderbeek.
Ian: A household name. Born in the Scottish enclave of a Swiss town in the Italian alps to Dutch parents.
Adrian: Not only a king among drivers, Paolo Vanderbeek is also a beloved man of the people.
Ian: No one is more passionate about his sport or cares more about his fans than Paolo Vanderbeek, earning him the name "the King of Care."
(Cut back to the living room. Candace enters singing as she sees Phineas and Ferb resting under the tree.)
(Song: Gonna Get My Bust On)
Candace: ♪ Gonna go get my bust on, ♪
♪ Gonna get, gonna get, gonna get, ♪
♪ Baw-ba-baw-baw-baw, ma bust on! ♪
Lawrence: How can ya go outside when it's Grand Prix Day?
Candace: (sarcastically) Uh, yeah, well, my pleather jumpsuit is at the cleaners and I feel underdressed.
Lawrence: Oh, that's understandable then.
Linda: She was being facetious, dear.
Lawrence: Oh, I see.
Candace: Well, doesn't look like there's anything bustable going on yet. (takes a seat) I guess I could kill a few.
Linda: Give it a chance, Candace. You might find it exciting.
(Cut back to the announcers' booth.)
Adrian: Let's look at an incomprehensible map of the race course, shall we?
(Cut to the map.)
Nigel: (offscreen) I can't make heads or tails out of it. You?
Ian: (offscreen) Uh, no clue, but no doubt, it'll be exciting!
(Cut back to the living room.)
Candace: (sarcastically) Oh, yeah. The excitement is killing me. Seems like a good time to wonder where Perry is.
(Cut to Agent P's lair. Agent P wheels into his lair on his chair. Monogram is onscreen in a pleather jumpsuit with Montevillebad behind him.)
Major Monogram: Greetings from Montevillebad, Agent P! You'll be joining us here for your mission. (whispering) But the lines aren't secure. (normal voice) So, we'll give you the details when you get here. And to get you here in style, we've provided you with a vintage 1963 Olson Martin! (The car rises from the floor behind Perry. He smiles.) So I'll see you after the wipe.
(Cut to Perry already in the car. He gives a thumbs up to Monogram.)
(Wipe to Montevillebad, with the Olson Martin driving down the road.)
Caption: Montevillebad...After the wipe
(Cut to Perry now wearing a tux in the car. A monitor showing Monogram's image appears on the dashboard.)
Major Monogram: Hello again, Agent P. International intel has indicated that Doofenshmirtz is planning to sabotage Paolo Vanderbeek and enter the Grand Prix himself. (Cut to Perry driving.) So, we need you to find out what Doof is up to while Carl and I keep an eye on Vanderbeek here at the race track incognito. (Cut to Monogram, now wearing a fake black mustache.) Nifty disguise, huh? Gives me a continental look, don't you think? Anyway, Doofenshmirtz is at the casino L'Hotel Uber-Swank.
(Cut to L'Hotel Uber-Swank. The Olson Martin pulls up to the valet.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz at a casino. ♪
(Cut to the casino.)
Croupier: Monsieur in the lab coat and bow tie wins again.
Doofenshmirtz: Man, I am on a roll!
Agent Double 0-0: (gets up) Stupid game. I'll never play it again.
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, never say never! Who's next? (Cut to Perry who takes a stick of bubblegum and chews it seriously and blows a bubble.) Oh, a mysterious platypus to take my challenge. Okay, I'll go first.
(Cut to the table to reveal they are playing tic-tac-toe. Doof puts down an x in the bottom center square. Perry puts an O above it. Doof blocks it on the right with another X. Perry puts an O below that X. Doof puts another X to the left of the center O. Perry flips the O card dramatically in the corner. He wins.)
Croupier: Jeu de morpion! Monsieur Platypus in the tuxedo wins!
Doofenshmirtz: What?!
Bouncer: Monsieur, there are no pets allowed in the casino.
Doofenshmirtz: What? He's not my mysterious platypus. I didn't bring him in here! I just—Oh, oh, you mean the cat. (Doof takes a white cat from under the table and leaves.) Yeah, my bad.
(Cut back to the racetrack.)
Adrian: Look at all those cars in a line.
Nigel: The collective amount of horsepower is absolutely staggering.
Ian: And so (coughs) are the exhaust fumes.
(Cut back to the living room.)
Candace: You realize this is just a bunch of cars parked in a line.
Linda and Lawrence: Yes. Yes we do.
(In the background, Phineas and Ferb are already plotting out what they're gonna do today.)
(Cut to a binoculars POV shot of a helicopter landing on a yacht. Cut to reveal Perry looking through the binoculars. He puts the car in drive and it splashes into the water. He presses a button on the car, and it turns into a scuba suit. He swims up to the yacht and takes off his scuba suit. He presses a button on the suit and it folds up into a handkerchief. He puts it in his pocket and walks up the stairs and chatters at Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: (gasp) The mysterious platypus from the casino! (Perry puts on his fedora.) Perry the Mysterious Platypus from the Casino?!?!? Betcha tired of standing 'round, aren't you? (Doof pushes a button and traps Perry in a pile of tires.) See? Tires. I thought it apropos, you know, this being the Grand Prix and all. Wait 'till you see my new lair! (The yacht drives into a cave tunnel.) Not too shabby. Hey, Norm, I'm back!
Norm: Look what I found! Metal teeth!
Doofenshmirtz: Uch, you've always had metal teeth, Norm.
Norm: Yes, but these are sharp.
Doofenshmirtz: What does that matter? You can't open your mouth. Here, grab Perry the Platypus. Isn't this place fabulous? I found it through an international lair exchange website. It's even got its own rocket. Y'know, I think I might've gotten the better end of this deal.
(Cutaway to an evil villain in Doof's bathroom, where the toilet has a clog. He sighs and puts a plunger into his hook-hand. Cut back to Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: Anyway, you're gonna love it. I was so impressed, I commissioned a whole new jingle!
(A female singer rises from the floor.)
(Song: Doof's Evil Hideout Vacation Swap)
Singer: ♪ Doofenshmirtz Swanky New Evil Lair! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, it's swanky!
Singer: ♪ It's an even swap, ♪
♪ A variation on a timeshare ♪
♪ He can use the kitchen and the hallway closet ♪
♪ Don't touch the rocket or you'll lose your deposit ♪
♪ It's an old-school evil hideout vacation swap. ♪
♪ It's an elegant lair with spectacular views ♪
♪ But the carpets are white, so please take off your shoes ♪
♪ The wiring is new, so you won't blow an electrical fuse ♪
♪ It's a swanky new evil hideout vacation ♪
♪ An old school evil hideout vacation ♪
♪ Yes, it's Doofenshmirtz evil hideout vacation swap. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (dancing) Yeah, look at these swanky moves!
Singer: ♪ Vacation swap! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Thanks, Cheryl! (to the viewer) My real estate agent. (to Perry) So, my evil plan. As you may know, the Montevillebad Grand Prix is a goodwill event with all the prize money awarded to the winner's favorite charity. So, I entered the race for my favorite charity, Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated...namely me! I'm the Doofenshmirtz...in Doofenshmirtz Evil...Well, you get it. And check it out! (Shows his race car on the monitor.) I've re-engineered my Boomshlaka 320-I to meet the Grand Prix specs. I also added some extras that should take care of, like, 99% of the playing field. But then there's still that 1%, Paolo Vanderbeek. But, uh, I got something else to take care of him. Behold, my I-Don't-Care-inator! (beat) It's not that I don't care. It creates apathy in whoever it hits. It's a little esoteric, I know, but, trust me, it'll work. I'll just zap Paolo with this baby and suddenly he won't care about anything and, uh, least of all, racing. I'll turn the King of Care into the King of I Couldn't Care Less, which will pave the way for me to win the race and the prize money for my favorite charity, which, I think I said before, is me. Now, before I go, lest you try to escape, I'll show you one more feature of this place. (He presses a button that says "Shark Tank".) Look, it's got its own shark tank! (laughter) (Cut to Norm wearing a rocket helmet. Doof straps into a seat on the robot.) Okay, then, I'm off to the races...literally! (Norm launches.) Hasta la pasta, baby!
(A shark swallows Perry whole.)
(Cut back to the race course.)
Adrian: Welcome back, racing fans, to the Montevillebad Grand Prix. And the teams are making the final preparations before the start of the race.
Ian: Including our favorite, Paolo Vanderbeek.
Nigel: Just look at the amazing amount of care and attention he pays to his fans and his car.
(Vanderbeek fixes his car and signs an autograph at the same time.)
Pit Man: Listen to those fans, Paolo. They love you.
(Vanderbeek gets zapped by the inator.)
Vanderbeek: Eh, who cares? (walks away)
Adrian: What's this? Paolo is walking away from the pits.
Nigel: And the race.
(Cut to Doof on Norm.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha ha! What a shot! Norm, set me down next to the registration booth and you go get the car ready.
Norm: Roger wilco, sir!
(Cut to a beach. The shark appears on the sand and all the people run away and scream. The shark's mouth opens and Agent P appears out of it. The shark then coughs out the tires and puts on a fedora and salutes. Agent P salutes Agent S back.)
(Cut back to the race.)
Adrian: Wait a second. There seems to be a last minute entry. A Heinz Doofen...Doofen.... Ih...hopeless with Drusselsteinian names.
Nigel: Hand it over, mate. Let's see. (takes the script from Adrian and reads it) "Dorkenshmitz"?
Ian: D-Doofen...Doofenshmuntz, Doofenshmuntz. Oh, that's utterly ridiculous.
Adrian: Whatever his name is, he's no Vanderbeek. That's for sure.
Nigel: There's the flag! And they're off!
(Perry walks onto the race track.)
Major Monogram: Psst, Agent P, over here! Doof has shot Vanderbeek with some kind of—oh, right, he probably monologued his scheme to you already. Anyhow, we need you to take Vanderbeek's place in the race, get that inator, and get back here to reverse its effect, so Vanderbeek can finish the race and defeat Doofenshmirtz. Carl has been trying to convince Vanderbeek to get back in the race using his sophisticated powers of persuasion.
(Cut to Carl also wearing a mustache with Vanderbeek.)
Carl: C'mon, pretty please? Pretty please with a cherry on top? I'll be your best friend!
Major Monogram: Yeah, you better get goin', Agent P. You can use the disguise setting on your Olson Martin. (Perry takes his Olson Martin out of his pocket, pushes a button, and it turns into Vanderbeek's mustache. He puts it on.) Wow, the resemblance is uncanny! Good luck, Agent P!
(The fake Vanderbeek gets into the real Vanderbeek's car and starts the engine.)
Nigel: What's this? Hello! It looks like Paolo Vanderbeek is back in the race!
(Cut back to the living room. In the background, Isabella, Buford and Baljeet have joined Phineas and Ferb standing by a pool.)
Candace: Wow, this isn't nearly as lame as I thought.
(A DNA strand rises out of the pool in the background.)
Lawrence: That's why our couch cushions are worn so unevenly. 'Cause we're always on the edge of our seats.
(Cut back to the race.)
Doofenshmirtz: Let's see if I can rub this guy the wrong way. (He laughs as he rams a car.) Nice bumpin' into ya! Maybe it's time to use a little elbow grease. (He pushes a button and some grease spews out of the back of his car causing the car to slide right out of the race.) Alright, smoke 'em if you got 'em! (Black smoke spews out of the exhaust pipe.)
Nigel: Approaching the Phillips' head turn, millimetrically perfect!
Adrian: Or .04 inches perfect for backwards people who don't use the metric system.
Nigel: Dumpendork is gonna have his work cut out for him if he wants to stay in the lead.
Doofenshmirtz: Paolo Vanderbeek? He's back? Eh, looks like I'm gonna have to through the works at him. There ya go. (The exhaust pipe flips open throwing everything...and the kitchen sink which the car dodges.)
Nigel: I say, that is an unprecedented amount of contact shunts and shenanigans!
Adrian: Shenanigans?
Ian: You don't think there's some sort of foul play afoot.
(Cut to the announcers' booth.)
Adrian: In Grand Prix racing? Don't be ridiculous!
Nigel: That kind of thing only happens in cartoons.
(Cut back to the race.)
Doofenshmirtz: Looks like somebody needs another shot of the I-Don't-Care-inator. (The car runs over some parts and the inator slips out of Doof's hand.) What? Uh-oh! That's mine! (Perry catches the inator.)
Adrian: And that last contact has put Doofenshmuntz spinning across the course!
Nigel: And Vanderbeek is pulling into the pits! What is wrong?
(Cut to Monogram and Carl still with the real Vanderbeek.)
Carl: Come on, whatta ya, chicken? Bagawk!
(Perry arrives with the inator.)
Major Monogram: Good work, Agent P! Now we just need you to...Oh, okay, yeah, you got it covered, too.
(Perry puts the inator in reverse and zaps Vanderbeek.)
Vanderbeek: Bocce balls! I cannot disappoint my fans!
(Cut back to Doof in the mud as Norm pushes him out.)
Ian: Doifenshmuntz has got himself going again with the help of an extremely large metal pit crew member.
(Cut back to the announcers' booth.)
Nigel: This is, without a doubt, the weirdest race I've ever seen.
(Cut to Vanderbeek getting into his car.)
Vanderbeek: Grazie tonto, little beaver-duck guy! I'm-a about to win-a!
Ian: And Paolo is back on the course!
Adrian: He'll have to really put his foot in if he wants to catch Doofenshmintz by the end of the race!
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz laughing.)
Doofenshmirtz: Not to make excuses, but sometimes, it's okay to be a little bit tacky. (He pushes a button and a bunch of tacks come out of the front, piercing his own tires.) Oh, maybe the tacks are supposed to be in the back.
Adrian: Dirkenshplurtz has run himself off the course completely!
(The car lands in a pool.)
Pool Guy: Gladys, j'ai une autre. (Subtitle: Gladys, we have another one.)
Nigel: And Vanderbeek pushes past just in time to sieze the checkered flag! Well done!
(Cut back to the living room. In the background, a giant foot carries the gang off while the parents and Candace are celebrating.)
Candace: Oh, yeah! Go, Paolo! Go, Paolo!
Linda: Woo-hoo!
Lawrence: What an exciting finish!
Candace: That was awesome! (looks behind her to see nothing there) Huh, I guess they're not doing anything today. (leaves) I am going to the mall and picking up a pleather jumpsuit!
(Cut back to the race. Doof runs onto the track all wet.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, did I win? (He takes off his helmet, which splashes more water onto him.) Oh, wait, no! Curse you, Paolo Vanderbeek! Y'know, that just doesn't roll off the tongue the way "Perry the Platypus" does. Perry the Platypus, Perry the Platypus.
(Cut to the announcers' booth.)
Adrian: And, on that bombshell, we bid farewell from glamorous Montevillebad!

End credits
Singer: ♪ Doofenshmirtz Swanky New Evil Lair! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, it's swanky!
Singer: ♪ It's an even swap, ♪
♪ A variation on a timeshare ♪
♪ He can use the kitchen and the hallway closet ♪
♪ Don't touch the rocket or you'll lose your deposit ♪
♪ It's an old-school evil hideout vacation swap. ♪



Contents[show]
Act 1
(Song: "Summer All Over the World")
(The show's logo with the episode's title appears on a black background, and the scene fades up into Danville Park where a concert is taking place. It is Phineas and the gang performing. Buford begins with his drums. Isabella comes in with the bass, followed by Ferb on rhythm guitar and Phineas on lead guitar.)
Phineas: ♪ Hot dogs, cotton candy, ♪
♪ Tire swings and barbecue, ♪
♪ In the shade, in the sun ♪
♪ Ev'rywhere's a rockin' view, ♪
♪ As long as we're together, ♪
♪ Doesn't matter what we do! ♪
♪ Come on! ♪
Ferb: ♪ Come on! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Come on! ♪
Ferb: ♪ Come on! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Bike ridin' down a hill, ♪
♪ Slammin' out a screen door, ♪
♪ Steaks sizzle on the grill, ♪
♪ Waves crashin' on the shore, ♪
♪ It's beautiful from here ♪
♪ And you know you want some more! ♪
♪ Come on! ♪
Ferb: ♪ Come on! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Come on! ♪
Ferb: ♪ Come on! ♪
(Cut to England where Phineas and the gang also seem to be performing in different costumes.)
Phineas: ♪ Get ready, ev'rybody! ♪
Band and Crowd: ♪ We're havin' a party! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Get up on your feet... ♪
Band and Crowd: ♪ We're havin' a party! ♪
(Cut to Mardi Gras in New Orleans where Phineas and the gang are now on a parade float in different costumes.)
Phineas: ♪ And let your body feel the beat! ♪
Band and Crowd: ♪ We're havin' a party! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Come on and rock the curve! ♪
All but Ferb: ♪ 'Cause it's summer, summer all over the world! ♪
♪ Ev'ry boy and ev'ry girl, ♪
♪ Jump up and say, ♪
♪ Ooh! Yeah! ♪
♪ Ooh! Ooh! Yeah! ♪
♪ Well, if not the world, ♪
♪ Then at least in the Northern Hemisphere ♪
♪ The other half is in a different time of year ♪
♪ But they can still say, ♪
♪ Ooh! Yeah! ♪
♪ Ooh! Ooh! Yeah! ♪
Phineas: Hello, world! Welcome to our musical tribute to summer! And if you're wondering what we're doing today...
Isabella: ...we're reaching out to everyone to share our love of summer!
Baljeet: Using Ferbographic technology, we are simulcasting our virtual selves around the planet!
Phineas: To put it simply, we're joining you to celebrate around the world, all from the comfort of our own backyard!
♪ Ev'ry corner of the world, yeah! ♪




Band and Crowd: ♪ 'Cause it's summer, summer all over the world! ♪
♪ Ev'ry boy and ev'ry girl, ♪
♪ Jump up and say, ♪
♪ Ooh! Yeah! ♪
♪ Ooh! Ooh! Yeah! ♪


Phineas: ♪ Hot dogs, cotton candy, ♪
♪ Tire swings and barbecue, ♪
♪ In the shade, in the sun ♪
♪ Ev'rywhere's a rockin' view, ♪
♪ As long as we're together, ♪
♪ Doesn't matter what we do! ♪
♪ Come on! ♪





♪ Well, if not the world, ♪
♪ Then at least in the Northern Hemisphere ♪
♪ The other half is in a different time of year ♪
♪ But they can still say, ♪
♪ Ooh! Yeah! ♪
♪ Ooh! Ooh! Yeah! ♪


♪ Bike ridin' down a hill, ♪
♪ Slammin' out a screen door, ♪
♪ Steaks sizzle on the grill, ♪
♪ Waves crashin' on the shore, ♪
♪ It's beautiful from here ♪
♪ And you know you want some more! ♪
♪ Come on! ♪



Backup: ♪ We're havin' a party! ♪
♪ We're havin' a party! ♪
♪ We're havin' a party! ♪


Phineas: And now help us in welcoming a very special guest and the visual metaphor for the carefree days of summer, Perry the Platypus!
(Crowd cheers, then gasps as the Perry hologram disappears)
Phineas: Hey, where's Perry?
(Cut to a car driving.)
Carl: (offscreen) Gosh, sir. I've never been to a cadet graduation before. (Cut to inside the car to reveal Carl driving while Monogram and Perry are in the back.) I hope I'm not underdressed.
Major Monogram: No, you're fine, Carl. Not everything's about you, you know. (A beeping sound is heard. Monogram pushes a button on the TV monitor beneath him and a highly decorated colonel appears onscreen.) Hello, Colonel Contraction.
Colonel Contraction: Greetings, Major! I just wanna wish you good luck on today's event! I've got the cake, and I'll be on my way just as soon as I'm done skimming out my kid's pool.
Major Monogram: Very good, sir. This year's event will be held at the Knights of Danville Hall, Ballroom B.
Colonel Contraction: Ballroom B? Isn't that a shared space?
Major Monogram: Just another money-saving idea of mine, sir.
Colonel Contraction: I don't know, Major. What about security?
Major Monogram: Oh, don't worry, sir. No one will know it's us. We're registered as the "Capulet Bat Mitzvah".
Colonel Contraction: Hmm, well, you have my utmost confidence, Major. But it goes without saying, any mishap could cost you your position. Contraction out!
Major Monogram: Well, I don't know about you guys, but I've got a good feeling about this!
(Awkward silence.)
(Cut to an exterior shot of the Knights of Danville Hall.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Nice goin', Norm! (Cut to backstage where Doof is having a talking-to to Norm.) Next time someone asks for volunteers to host the L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. Service Awards, say your own name, Mr. Blabbermouth!
Norm: But, sir, I made all the arrangements for you.
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, and a fine job you did, too. We are sharing the space with another event!
Norm: What's wrong with that?
Doofenshmirtz: What's wrong with it? Do you realize what would happen if all the other evil organizations found out we were sharing? They'd be all, "Oh, look! There goes L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N.! They share! They're cocky and uncoordinated and don't wear name-brand jeans!" "Well, maybe people can't afford designer jeans, Julie!"
(beat)
Norm: Wow, that was...
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I heard it.
Norm: Well, don't worry, sir. No one will know it's our event. We're registered as the "Hatfield Wedding Reception".
Doofenshmirtz: Well, let's hope nobody knows it's us. (walks off) Now, get out of my way, you perfunctory party planner.
(Cut to a panning shot of Ballroom B as it is revealed that both OWCA and L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. are sharing the space.)
Carl: (offscreen) Sir, may I offer you one of my budget-saver hors d'oeuvres before you go on? It's an old family recipe. Strips of bologna and wadded-up white bread.
Major Monogram: Where exactly are you from?
Carl: Chula Vista.
Major Monogram: Hmmm. Nevermind, Carl. It's showtime! (Cut to the stage) Hello, everyone! Welcome to the O.W.C.A. Graduation Ceremony!
(All the OWCA agents make excitable noises. Cut to the other space. Doof walks onstage.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hello, and welcome to L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N.'s first annual... (The agents' cheering is still heard. Doof speaks louder.) I said, L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N.'s FIRST ANNUAL DISSERVICE AWAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARDS!!! So, who's ready to have some fun?
Major Monogram: What the heck is all that racket? I'm just gonna go over there and tell them to keep it down. I'll be polite but firm. (He opens the divider to reveal Doof, as a record scratch is heard, then he closes it up again.) Huh. What are the odds?
Doofenshmirtz: (reopening the divider) Wait, you're the Capulet Bar Mitzvah?
Major Monogram: You're the Hatfield Wedding?
(The agents and the villains make angry noises.)
Major Monogram: Alright, everyone, take it easy. Just calm down. No reason to get upset. We've got a massive security deposit on this place. So, everybody just...
Parrot: Rawk! Polly wants a streetfight!
Major Monogram: (offscreen) Defenestrate!
(A huge western-style fight breaks out, which is interrupted by a man opening the ballroom door.)
Man: Hup! Sorry to interrupt, I'll come back when you're done.
(The man leaves and the fight resumes.)
Major Monogram: We are so gonna lose our deposit.
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Linda: (offscreen) Here's your stuff from the attic, Candace.
(Cut to Candace's bedroom.)
Linda (cont'd): I don't know why you couldn't find it.
Candace: I don't know, Mom. It must've been behind something. Heh heh.
Linda: Candace, you didn't go up there at all, did you?
Candace: Oh, Mom, I just couldn't go up there. It's all gross and webby.
Linda: Candace Flynn, don't tell me you're still afraid of spiders.
Candace: Pfft! Spiders? Are you kidding? Why would I be afraid of an itsy bitsy SPIDER!??!?! (jumps up to the top shelf) Aah! Ahh! Ew ew ew ew!
Linda: Oh, for crying out loud. It's a hair clip. That looks nothing like a spider.
Candace: (chuckles) I knew that! I'm just showing you how silly it is to be afraid of a little spider.
Linda: Mmhmm. Well, you got your box. Now I have to go.
Candace: Where are you going?
Linda: Your dad and I are going spelunking.
Candace: Spelunking? You mean, like, in a cave?
Linda: It's a journey of self-discovery while crawling around in a hole. Your dad found it on a group coupon website.
Candace: (sarcastically) Yeah, that sounds fun.
Linda: Just remember, you're in charge, Miss Muffet.
(Cut back to the fight. Contraction enters carrying a cake.)
Colonel Contraction: Alright, Major, here's the ca--Oh! (He sees the results of the fight. The whole room is a mess and agents are groaning in defeat.) Ateahoo!
Major Monogram: (gets up and salutes) Colonel Contraction, sir!
Colonel Contraction: Major Monogram, I hold you personally responsible for turning one of our most sacred ceremonies into a grade A countrified debacle!
Major Monogram: Debacle?
Colonel Contraction: DEBACLE! Now normally, I'd be able to forgive this kind of thing because of your tireless dedication and spotless record to OWCA, but it's clear to me that you lost our security deposit and that is something I cannot forgive. I'm forced to relieve you of command. I'll take that... (rips off the first "M" on Monogram's uniform) and that! (rips off his mustache)
Monogram: Actually, sir, that mustache was mine.
Colonel Contraction: Not anymore. (leaves, then reenters) DEBACLE!!! Carl the Intern, until a replacement can be found, (puts mustache on Carl) you are provisionally in charge. (salutes) Congratulations, Provisional Unpaid Major-in-Charge Carl!
(*Until further notice, Carl will now be known as "Major-in-Charge Carl" and Major Monogram will be called just "Monogram".*)
Major-in-Charge Carl: Major, I...I don't...
Monogram: Carl, be strong. I must step down. We must all do our duty. (The agents hum "The Battle Hymn of the Republic" under this.) And that is what our, I mean, your organization is built upon. People following orders.
(He leaves both with pride and shame.)
(Cut back to Candace's bedroom where she's going through her box.)
Candace: Oh, cool, my old tiara. Ooh, sparkly! (picks up a videocassette) Hey, I don't remember this. Hmm. (reads) "For: Future Candace!" Hey, wait a minute! I'm Future Candace! There's gotta be a machine around here that still plays these things.
(Song: "Summer All Over the World (instrumental)")
(Cut to the backyard where Phineas and the gang are still doing their virtual concert. Candace approaches her brother.)
Candace: Phineas!
Phineas: Oh, hi, Candace! Nice outfit.
Candace: Nice glasses.
Phineas: Thanks! We're using them to simulcast ourselves all around the world.
(Cut to London where Candace is dressed as a royal guard.)
Candace: Sh-sh-sh-sh! No time! I need to watch this.
(Cut to Paris where Phineas is dressed in a beret and a striped shirt and neckerchief.)
Phineas: A videocassette? Wow, going old school, huh?
(Cut to the Swiss Alps where Candace is dressed like a Swiss Miss.)
Candace: Right? So how do I watch it?
(Cut to Phineas dressed as a Swiss yodeler.)
Phineas: Well, Dad has a universal video player in the garage.
(Cut to Japan where they are all anime characters doing the dance from Summer Belongs to You.)
Candace: Where in the garage?
(Cut to Mardi Gras.)
Phineas: 12 degrees northwest of the washing machine.
(In Soviet Russia, scene cut to you!)
Candace: Thanks. Carry on with your non-bustable activity. (She leaves.)
Phineas: Everyone, give it up for our sister, Candace Flynn!
(Crowd cheers.)
(Cut to a sign reading "Tri-State State Park Donkey Caverns". Zoom out to reveal the caves. Cut to inside the caves where Linda and Lawrence are wearing their spelunking gear with a rather nebbish looking tour guide.)
Tour Guide: Are you folks ready for a little adventure?
Lawrence: Oh, yes, we're ready for our journey of self-discovery while crawling through the belly of the Earth.
Tour Guide: Say what?
Lawrence: Well, like the ad said, "Inner Spelunking with Soul".
Tour Guide: What?! Oh, no, no, no! It's supposed to be "Saul", S-A-U-L. That's my name, Saul. There will be absolutely no self-discovery.
Lawrence: Awww.
Linda: You go on and self-discover, hun.
(Cut to the garage. Candace uncovers a tarp and discovers the universal video player. She puts the tape inside and sees a five-year-old version of herself onscreen.)
Young Candace: (onscreen) Keep the camera thteady, Thtacy.
Candace: Aw, look, it's me! Aw, I was so cute!
Young Candace: (on video) Thith ith Candathe Flynn. I'm five yearth old and it wath an awethome thummer! But I didn't get to do everything I wanted. Tho I made a litht of thingth that I want Future Candathe to take care of.
Candace: Oh, that's so cute. Of course, I'll take care of those things, Past Candace!
Young Candace: (on video) First on the list, invent an ice cream flavor, win a first-grade spelling bee, ride a unicorn. Tho if you're watching, Future Candathe, don't—
Young Stacy: (offscreen) Candace, don't forget number four, conquer fear of spiders.
Young Candace: (on video) Okay, that one creepth me out a little bit, but that should be no problem for you, Future Candathe!
Candace: But, but-but-but...But I'm "Future Candathe"!
(Cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(The doorbell rings, and Doof answers.)
Doofenshmirtz: Just a minute, I'm mopping. (opens the door) Oh, hello, Perry the Platypus, long time, no see. Say, that was some morning we had, huh? Too bad about Major Monogram, but the show must go on or a bird in the bush, eh-eh, I dunno. (Perry gets trapped in hardening foam.) Ha! You like that? It's a gift...foam-a me to you! Get it? As much as I like our little visits, you didn't need to come over. Actually, I'm not even trying to take over the Tri-State Area today. Y-You see, I have a problem. I am very fair-skinned. I don't know if you have noticed. I always have to use SPF 120 sunscreen even on a cloudy day or I'll burn. I mean, I'll actually burst into flames. And I got this whole crate on sale, and, and look, it's all 110 SPF! I thought I was getting 120! This is not gonna work. So rather than return this whole mess, which means I'd have to get in the car, drive down there, wait in line, then answer a bunch of questions about the delicacy of my epidermis, I'm just gonna move the Earth away from the sun just enough that the 110 will work. Simple. And to that end, I have created, tada!, my Shift-The-Earth's-Position-Further-Away-From-The-Sun-inator! Eh? I know. The name's a little cumbersome, but it's basically a tractor beam that uses the mass of Jupiter as an anchor to pull the Earth just slightly away from the sun to render my sunscreen effective. Eh. I guess my fortune cookie was right. I do tend to overcomplicate things. (picks up fortune) I wonder if that means these lottery numbers are--
(Perry punches Doof and the fight is on. Doof swipes his mop and Perry rides on it.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hmm? (Perry taps Doof's shoulder and grabs his nose.)
(Doof swipes the mop and Perry slides backwards on the crate and slams into the fire button on the inator. It works. It functions properly.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hee hee hee! You fired my inat-- (gets splashed by the wet mop)
(Cut to the virtual concert where the Earth is quaking. The crowd stops partying and starts screaming.)
Buford: Whoa! What was that?
Phineas: We are rockin' this place!

Act 2
(Open on the Earth being pulled towards Jupiter. Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house. Cut to Candace's bedroom with Candace and Stacy inside.)
Stacy: Candace, what is that?
Candace: I don't know, but I can guess. (Shouts out the window.) Phineas, what is going on out there?!
Phineas: I don't know. It wasn't us. But we can find out. Irving, take over the concert for us!
Irving: All I know how to sing is one camp song.
Isabella: Then you rock that camp song, Irving!
(The gang leaves the virtual platform and Irving steps on and puts on his goggles.)
Irving: Um, okay. Here's a campfire song my mother taught me.
(Song: "Irving's Camp Fire Song")
Irving: ♪ Oh, never lick a tree below the dog line, ♪
♪ If it's brown and sticky, do not pick it up ♪ (Unless it's a stick.)
♪ Banjo-playing hicks should be avoided, ♪
♪ And it's no joke, that poison oak is not a friendly shrub. ♪
♪ With a diddly-diddly-doo and a doodly-doodly-dee, ♪
♪ Something horrible will happen if you don't listen to me. ♪
♪ Lakes and creeks and ponds are fish's toilets... ♪
(The song continues under.)
Phineas: Well, according to the pocket barometer, the atmospheric pressure has lowered dramatically since this morning.
Buford: You checked the atmospheric pressure this morning?
Phineas: Yeah. I check it every morning. After I brush my teeth.
Buford: You brush your teeth every morning?
Phineas: Well, yeah.
Buford: Huh. (beat, to Baljeet) He thinks he's better than us.
Phineas: Oh, no! Duck! (the gang ducks) No, I mean, like, a whole lot of ducks. Look! (Cut to the sky to reveal a whole lot of ducks flying in their "v" formation.) They look like they're migrating south. Guys, I think something's weird with the weather.
Baljeet: We should monitor the conditions in the upper atmosphere. I have a weather balloon.
Buford: Why would you have a weather balloon?
Baljeet: Buford, you have full-sized molds of all of us.
(beat)
Buford: We should use Baljeet's weather balloon!
(Cut to Candace's bedroom.)
Stacy: Wow, I remember this list!
Candace: Yep, Stace, I promised five-year-old me that I'd do everything on that list.
Stacy: Well, let's see what you gotta do. "Invent a new ice cream flavor, win a first-grade spelling bee, ride a unicorn, and conquer fear of spiders." Ha! Good luck with that last one.
Candace: What are you talking about?
Stacy: Candace, everyone knows you're terrified of spiders.
Candace: Pfft. Spiders? Are you kidding? Why would I be afraid of an itsy bitsy SPIDER!?!?!?! AAAH! AHHH! GET IT! GET IT! EW EW EW EW EW!!
Stacy: Oh, I remember this hair clip.
(Cut to the caverns.)
Saul: Most people don't think life can survive down this deep, but most people don't know gastropods the way I do. Take a gander at this salamander. Notice anything unusual?
Lawrence: Oh, yes, his gills are on the outside of his body.
Saul: They are? Ew! Oh! Ew! Ew! Ew! Ew!
Lawrence: (to Linda) It didn't have any eyes either.
Linda: Thanks for not mentioning that.
(Song: "Doof 'N' Puss" (instrumental))
(Cut to OWCA Headquarters. Perry uses the retina scan and a robotic arm comes out and he performs the secret handshake with it.)
Computer: You may enter.
(The door opens and a chicken flies out. He walks inside the office and it is complete chaos all around. None of the agents are wearing their fedoras and are simply acting like their mindless selves.)
Major-in-Charge Carl: (whispering) Psst! Agent P, down here! (Cut to reveal Major-in-Charge Carl hiding in a kennel. Agent P approaches him.) Is that goat still eating out of the inbox? (Perry nods.) It's a good thing I hid the outbox.
Monty: Carl!
Perry: (chatters)
Monty: Oh, Agent P, what's going on? It's like a zoo in here. Where is my dad?
Major-in-Charge Carl: Your father's been fired.
Monty: Fired? Really?
Major-in-Charge Carl: Yes! And all the animal agents are going crazy! (Monty opens the kennel and Major-in-Charge Carl crawls out.) On the upside, I've been promoted.
Monty: Yes, I see the mustache. (A printer is heard whirring. Monty takes out the paper.) Looks like you got a message.
Major-in-Charge Carl: It's intel from Agent Squab, our French surveillance pigeon. Hmm, there's a small shift in ambient temperature, there's civil unreasonableness at City Hall, and L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. is convening for a secret meeting?! Oh no! Why did this have to happen on my watch?!
Monty: Wait a minute, you got all that from this?
(Cut to the letter to reveal it is just slashes and foot markings.)
Major-in-Charge Carl: Yeah, that's how Agent Squab types, all hunt-and-peck.
Monty: Well, Carl, you're in charge. What are you gonna do about it?
Major-in-Charge Carl: You mean besides freak out?!
Monty: Get a hold of yourself. You know this agency as well as my dad. Maybe better. These agents just need leadership. Think: "What Would Major Monogram Do?"
Major-in-Charge Carl: You're right! (to the goat) Agent G, quit eating those memos and get out into the field! (to the dog) Agent D, go see what you can dig up! (to the owl) Agent O, go find out who's who! Agent Possum, play dead! (Agent Possum does so.) Excellent! (To the bear who is shredding documents) Agent B, go into the woods and...see what's out there! And the rest of you, get out there and fight evil! Agent P, I want you to go out to City Hall and get a reading on the situation there and then report back to me.
(Perry salutes and takes off.)
Monty: (puts on fedora) What about me, Carl? I can go spy on L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. if you--
Major-in-Charge Carl: Oh, no, no, Monty. I can't let you do that. That's...that's crazy! You're not even an animal.
Monty: We've got no choice, Carl. We're all gonna have to wear different hats today...and mustaches.
Major-in-Charge Carl: Hey, Monty?
Monty: What?
Major-in-Charge Carl: Thanks
Monty: No problem. Oh, and, uh, (takes off fedora) can I have a different hat? This one smells like a litter box.
Major-in-Charge Carl: Yeah, you should smell this thing.
(Cut to Monogram now working the drive-thru at Mr. Slushy Dawg.)
Monogram: Morning, your mission today: battle the forces of darkness and keep the Tri-State Area safe from evil-doers.
Driver: Uh, come again?
(Song: "Slushy the Clown" (instrumental))
Monogram: Oh, sorry. Force of habit. (gives the driver his order) Here's your order. Enjoy your Slushy Dawg. (The driver drives away. Monogram turns to Jeremy.) So, uh, how'm I doin', boss?
Jeremy: Yeah, this is the part of the job I hate the most, but...
Monogram: Yep. Say no more, sir. I completely understand. You don't have to fire me. (He takes off his uniform and gives it to Jeremy.) I resign.
Jeremy: But--
Monogram: (leaves, saluting, half-naked) Say no more. (hums)
Jeremy: But...but... I was just gonna ask him to clean the bathroom. (walks up to a female employee) Um, Dolores, this is the part of the job I hate the most.
Dolores: Oh, for crying out loud, just give me the mop.
(Cut to a newsstand where Stacy is reading off the list and Candace is riding a donkey with a horn on it and holding an ice cream cone in one hand and a trophy in the other.)
Stacy: Okay, let's see. "Invent a new ice cream flavor."
Candace: Grilled cheese!
Stacy: Check. "Win a first grade spelling bee."
Candace: Clover. C-L-O-V-E-R. Those stupid kids never knew what hit 'em!
Stacy: Check. "Ride a unicorn."...Of sorts.
Candace: Dreams can come true, Stacy!
Stacy: There's just one more thing on the list. Get over your fear of spiders.
Candace: No, I refuse! Quickly, Rainbow, we must away! Fly, now, fly! On, proud beauty! Fly, fly!
Rainbow: Aw hee haw hee haw hee haw!
(Cut to Danville City Hall.)
Gordon Gutsofanemu: Danville is in chaos. Summer has become slightly cooler. Some sources even go as far as to say, "brisk". We have word that the Mayor is about to address this slight drop in temperature. Let's listen.
Roger: (wearing a sweatshirt) Citizens of Danville, I want to assure you that your slight discomfort is of utmost importance to me and I will do everything in my power to...recommend you wear a cardigan or light sweater.
Woman #1: But all my sweaters are ugly and Christmas themed!
Roger: Well, then, just wear warmer clothes.
Man #1 (Evil Jingle Singer #2): Warmer clothes? Do you know how dumb I would look wearing socks with flip-flops? (to the crowd) Hey, his sweater looks nice and warm. Get it!
(The citizens become an angry mob and storm the steps.)
Roger: People, people. Look look look, take-take it easy. I'm still your mayor!
(Perry rescues Roger from the mob in his rocket car and places him on top of the roof.)
Roger: Thank you, good Samaritan platypus! (Perry leaves him there.) Although I'm not sure this is much of an improvement. I mean, I really don't know how to get down from here...and it's getting noticeably colder up here. Oh! It's a good thing I wore my sweater.
(Cut to Baljeet's weather balloon.)
Baljeet: Well, according to the conditions in the upper atmosphere...
(Cut to the gang now in their Christmas clothes outside Baljeet's house.)
Baljeet (cont'd): ...we are in for a moderate cold front that shows absolutely no signs of subsiding.
Phineas: That's odd. I can't remember a single Danville summer where I needed to wear anything more than a T-shirt.
Isabella: Striped.
Phineas: And shorts.
Isabella: Blue cargo.
Baljeet: But the part that perplexes me the most is that, for some reason, the sun algorithm that I created keeps coming up with the wrong result!
Buford: 'Splain?
Baljeet: The diameter of the sun can be calculated from the distance between the Earth and the sun. Since we know the time taken for the Earth to go once around the sun, p=1 year, and the distance traveled by the Earth in this process, 2πa...
(During this, Buford starts to fall asleep.)
Baljeet: BUFORD!!!
Buford: Stop 'splainin'! Stop 'splainin'!
Isabella: So that would mean the Earth has moved?
Phineas: Apparently so.
Isabella: Well, that would explain why it's noticeably colder.
(Cut to Irving still singing)
Irving: ♪ Your sinew's torn apart by a grizzly... ♪ (shivers) Freezing!
♪ Your large intestines wrapped around a tree... ♪ Does anyone have a sweater?
(Cut back to Phineas.)
Phineas: I think we're gonna have to run some more tests.
(Cut to an abandoned animal shelter. Monty is seen climbing up a pipe and into the building.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Now, why do we always have to meet in drafty abandoned warehouses? I mean, why can't we meet in a drafty abandoned poolside cabana?
Dr. Bloodpudding: Oh ho ho ho! I'm bananas for cabanas!
Dr. Diminutive: Right?
Rodney: Okay, enough of that! Gentlemen, it's time we pooled our resources! Both OWCA and City Hall are in a panic and I believe now is the time to strike! Now, the last time we confronted those OWCA agents, we barely got out of there with our lives! (The villains agree.) It's time to play dirty! We'll stealthily capture them one at a time and imprison them here!
Villain #1: Yeah!
Villain #2: Gang up on them!
Villain #3: We can make it a musical number!
Rodney: Secondly, no one under any circumstances, is allowed to say "bananas for cabanas."
Dr. Bloodpudding: (offscreen) Noted.
Rodney: And third, which one of you moved the Earth away from the sun and changed the weather?
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, that would be me?
Rodney: Doofenshmirtz? You've finally made an inator that actually works?
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, all of my inators work! It's just that, you know, I...I don't use them properly. I have poor planning skills. (takes out blueprints) But it was me. I've the blueprints right here. (The villains all look in amazement.) Yeah, you see, just ignore the coffee stain or whatever that is. (sniffs) Uh, I think that's nacho cheese.
Rodney: Gentlemen, we will now begin our takeover of...the world!
Monty: (gasps, then covers his mouth)
Rodney: What was that?
(Cut to Monty.)
Dr. Diminutive: (offscreen) Maybe the building's settling.
Rodney: (offscreen) So to you, a building settling sounds like someone inhaling sharply?
Dr. Diminutive: (offscreen) Well, I live in a strange building.
Monty: I've got to warn Carl.
Rodney: (offscreen) Okay, tell me you didn't hear that!
Dr. Diminutive: (offscreen) Still the building settling.
Rodney: (offscreen) So our building has a sudden urge to warn Carl?
(Cut to the Danville Insect Emporium.)
Stacy: (offscreen) Come on, Candace!
(Cut to inside at the Spider Pavillion.)
Stacy (cont'd): It's the last thing on the list.
Candace: I know I know I know I know okay, here I go! (Walks in nervously.) Ugh! I can't!
Stacy: I don't understand what the big deal is.
Candace: It's just the legs and the hair and all those eyes! And why do they have so many eyes?!
Stacy: There's nothing to be afraid of. Spiders are harmless. (opens a cage) Look. I'm sticking my hand in the cage. Hello there, little guy. (gets bitten) Huh!
(Screen flips to Stacy being carried away in an ambulance.)
Candace: Poor Stacy. My fear of spiders got Stacy bitten. (happily) But saved me! Yes! Looks like it's just you and me now, Rainbow.
Rainbow: Aw hee haw hee haaaaawwww!
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Phineas: Alright, Isabella, let me have it one more time.
(Cut to the backyard, where Isabella is experimenting with a tennis ball.)
Isabella: Well, according to our data, this is the relative position of the sun, and this is where the Earth should be on its orbit this summer. But for some reason, we're here. (sighs) Tennis balls don't lie. (Throws the ball.)
Phineas: Every test scenario we run comes back with the same results. It just seems impossible. (throws the ball to Baljeet)
Baljeet: Aaah! But it is true! The Earth has moved away from the sun and now summer is gone!
Buford: Big deal! So this summer's over. There's always next summer.
Phineas: No, Buford. If we don't do something soon, summer will be gone forever!
(Dramatic music plays, which is revealed to be Ferb conducting a small orchestra.)
Ferb: What? I'm expressing how I feel through music.

Act 3
(Song: "O.W.C.A.'s Goin' Down")
(Open up on a West Side Story-style helicopter shot of Danville with someone whistling in the background. Zoom in on an empty court where the members of L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. are snapping their fingers in an imitation of the Jets.)
L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N.: ♪ Evil team up, ♪
♪ Dastardly scheme up, ♪
♪ Takin' them to town, ♪
♪ Gonna catch 'em, ♪
♪ Throw 'em and fetch 'em, ♪
♪ Put them in the pound. ♪
♪ You kicked us around, ♪
♪ You mocked and offended, ♪
♪ The pages have turned, ♪
♪ Your chapter has ended ♪
♪ Now, 'cause O.W.C.A.'s goin' down. ♪
♪ That's right! ♪
♪ Don't eyeball me, ♪
♪ Just look askance, ♪
♪ Your team was run aground, ♪
♪ You say you didn't eat those plans, ♪
♪ But here's the ultrasound. ♪
♪ Your agency's over, ♪
♪ The whole thing is endin', ♪
♪ Check out our homepage ♪
♪ And see how we're trendin'! ♪
♪ O.W.C.A.'s goin' down! (Distract!) ♪
♪ O.W.C.A.'s goin' down! (Grab!) ♪
♪ O.W.C.A.'s goin' down! (Lasso!) ♪
♪ O.W.C.A.'s goin' down! (Nab!) ♪
♪ O.W.C.A.'s goin' down! ♪
(Cut to a view of the Earth, which explodes. Suddenly some end credits appear on screen, all credited to Buford. Pull out to reveal it is a computer simulation.)
Buford: And that's what would happen if we grew magnets under the Earth's core.
Phineas: The credits were a nice touch.
Buford: Well, there's so many people behind the scenes that deserve a mention.
Phineas: I guess that's another course of action that's off the table. (crosses off a formula on the blackboard) Not too many ideas left.
Isabella: (shudders) But we have to figure out a way to save summer or it'll be gone forever!
Phineas: Well, Baljeet, what have you got?
Baljeet: I have composed a simulation for turning the Earth's core into a gyroscope. Maybe that would... (groans)
Buford: And roll credits!
Ferb: Sure hope this cold weather isn't affecting Mum and Dad's cave adventures.
(Cut to Saul.)
Saul: Okay, now we're gonna squeeze past this stalactite... I mean, stalagmite. Wait, which one is on top?
Lawrence: Actually, I believe that's just a hole.
Saul: I seem to be trapped! Turn away, folks! I'm gonna have to saw my arm off!
(Linda and Lawrence pull Saul out of the hole.)
Saul: That was a close one. Now, follow me!
Linda: Do you get the feeling that this might be his first time down here, too?
Saul: (offscreen, grunts as his light suddenly goes out) Dangit!
(Cut to the abandoned warehouse where Agent O gets trapped.)
Rodney: There we go! With that, we've captured all of OWCA's agents.
Doofenshmirtz: Almost all of them. Remember Perry the Platypus. He's still out there somewhere.
Rodney: Thank you for reminding me, Dr. Bringdown.
Villain #4: Excuse me, I'm Dr. Bringdown!
Rodney: Put a sock in it, David! (to Doof) Time to get to our press conference! Soon, the world will bow to us, like Doofy's neck bows to his back.
(The other villains laugh.)
Dr. Diminutive: His posture's poor.
Doofenshmirtz: Nice.
Rodney: Come on, Slouchy! Let's make ourselves some demands!
(Cut to Candace's room with Candace trying to get over her fear of spiders)
Candace: Hey there, little fella. You're not such a tough guy, are you, Mr. Spider? Aw, no you're not. No, not a bit. Ah, who ya kidding, Flynn? To face your fear, you gotta at least look. (gets creeped out by the spider) Ahh! Creepy crawly, creepy crawly, creepy crawly! Get off me, get off me, get off me, get off me! Ew, ew! I'm sorry, 5-year-old me. I tried. I really tried. (slaps herself) Snap out of it, current me! Summer's not over yet. (looks outside the window) Hey, wait a minute, summer's over? Who did th- oh... Phineas and Ferb. (runs downstairs) Phineas and Ferb, what did you do to summer?!
(cut to City Hall with the Evil Demands)
Man #2: Your fall is ruining summer.
Woman #2: You made me buy a blanket with sleeves!
Man #3: My toilet seat's cold.
Doofenshmirtz: Ladies and gentlemen of the press, kindly put a cork in it. So you've probably figured out that the Earth has moved away from the sun.
Rodney: And we at L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. are responsible. And now, we're here to extort you. And to that end, let me introduce you to Señor Killbot.
(Dr. Killbot walks in)
Dr. Killbot: ¿Donde esta la biblioteca? ("Where is the library?")
Rodney: You know, in case any of you extortees speak Español. We don't want to leave anyone out.
Dr. Killbot: ¿Qué te parece mi bordado? ("Do you like my embroidery?")
Audience: Awwww...
Female: Aw, that's cute.
Doofenshmirtz: And that's our new logo. Foreboding, yet comforting. So basically, if you want us to put the Earth back in its proper orbit, you have to meet our list of demands. Number 1: the minimum height to get on any rollercoaster will now be this high. (puts his hand three inches over Dr. Diminutive's head) (Diminutive puts Doof's hand on the very top of Diminutive's head) I mean that high. Number 2: pretzels.
Rodney: Really? That's how you give demands?
Doofenshmirtz: What? What was wrong with that? I was gonna go for one of those big tubs from Lotsmo.
Rodney: You sounded like a bashful Santa Claus pitching softballs to a girl in a bikini.
Doofenshmirtz: Alright, number four... Wait, you don't know what that sounds like!
Rodney: Stand aside. (pushes Doof away from the podium) Listen, you dogs, with one small inator...
Doofenshmirtz: My inator!
Rodney: ...we've moved the Earth into an early autumn. Now, we, the collective scientific genius of L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N., have created an inizer ten times the size and strength! Capable of moving the Earth so far away from the sun, we'll bring about a new ice age! So, if you value your puny lives, you will meet all the demands on our list or pay the consequences!
Doofenshmirtz: Is it just me or is this getting out of hand?
Dr. Killbot: Quiera lucha tu casa. ("I want to fight your house.")

Act 4
(Open up on the Flynn-Fletcher house. Cut to the backyard.)
Candace: Seriously? Someone moved the Earth and it wasn't you?
Phineas: Not this time, no.
Candace: Any chance it could spontaneously go back to the way it was?
Phineas: We can't take that chance, Candace. We'll never have another summer if our plan doesn't work.
Candace: Plan? What plan?
Phineas: We're building this massive rocket engine to put on top of Mount Danville.
Candace: One measly rocket on one mountain isn't going to move the Earth, Phineas.
Phineas: (pointing to a splitscreen monitor) That's why we enlisted the help of other kids around the world. See? There's Floria and Abdul on Mount Kilimanjaro, Ganesh and Kabul on Mt. Everest, Vsevolod and Vanko at the top of Mount Elbrus, and Lupert and Eporwold on Mount Haggenhuge. Eporwold's the goat. While they finish fine-tuning, we'll move our rocket up to Mount Danville.
Candace: Then everyone turns them on, and the Earth goes back to the way it was?
Phineas: Sort of. But the burners all need to be synchronized through this control panel. Otherwise, we risk ripping the Earth's crust apart. Do you think you could stay here and help control the thrust?
Candace: These look like simple level controls.
Phineas: Yeah. Pretty much the same as a sound mixer, except this one controls five megarockets capable of ripping the Earth in half.
Candace: Why can't Irving do it?
Phineas: Oh, he would, but he's trending right now.
(Cut to Irving now rocking out on his camp song.)
Irving: ♪ Scorpions, parasites, black widows, rabies! ♪
♪ Sunburn, frostbite, head trauma, scabies! ♪
♪ Don't even get me started 'bout mosquitoes! ♪
♪ Malaria! ♪
(Cut to OWCA Headquarters.)
Major-in-Charge Carl: (offscreen) Good morning, Agent P.
(Cut to reveal Major-in-Charge Carl practicing on a mirror pretending that it is the monitor.)
Major-in-Charge Carl: (different inflection) Good morning, Agent P. (to Agent P) Well, what do you think?
Monty: Carl, the evil scientists of L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. have captured all of our agents!
Major-in-Charge Carl: Ugh! My first day on the job and all my agents get captured! W-What am I gonna do?
Monty: Simple, let's go get 'em!
Major-in-Charge Carl: But we're seriously outnumbered!
Monty: Maybe, but we have the advantage! We have the best agent with us and we have the element of surprise! We can't lose!
Major-in-Charge Carl: You're right! Perry, Monty, let's go rescue our agents! (They leave, but Major-in-Charge Carl tries it again with a different inflection in the mirror.) Let's go rescue our agents. Let's go... (Perry comes back with his hands on his hips.) Oh, I'm coming.
(Cut to Floria and Abdul on Mount Kilimanjaro. They close their rocket. Cut to the control panel. A red dot is seen blinking on a hologram of the Earth.)
Candace: Oh, there's Kilimanjaro! Phineas, Floria and Abdul's rocket is ready! That's all of them!
Phineas: (on radio) Great! (cut to outside where the rocket goes out for liftoff) Okay, Candace, we're on our way to Mount Danville! Lock down the capsule and stand by!
(Candace does so.)
Candace: Oh, I sure hope there aren't any spiders in here.
(Cut to Phineas and the gang in the rocket.)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb, let's put it down right there!
(Cut to Mount Danville. The rocket gets placed on the peak of the mountain.)
Phineas: C'mon, everyone! Let's get this thing online!
(He unties a rope and the gang all unpack.)
Isabella: (opening up a laptop) I'm linking up to the other rockets. Is everyone ready out there? Mount Elbrus?
Vanko: (on laptop) Check.
Isabella: Mount Kilimanjaro?
Abdul: (on laptop) Check.
Isabella: Mount Everest?
Kabul: (on laptop) Check.
Isabella: Mount Haggenhuge? (no response) Mount Haggenhuge?
Eporwold: (bleats on laptop)
Isabella: Uh-oh! Mount Haggenhuge, your rocket has gone offline! Can you fix it?
(Cut to Mount Haggenhuge. Eporwold headbutts the rocket in and it goes online. Cut back to Isabella.)
Isabella: All systems are green!
Phineas: (on radio) Check! Firing up Mount Danville!
(The rocket fires up.)
Isabella: Okay, Candace...
(Cut back to Candace.)
Isabella: (on radio) ...you're good to go!
Candace: Roger! Target destination activated! Engaging thrusters! (She slides the switches up and all the rockets fire up.) Phineas, it's working! The Earth is moving back into position!
(Cut to Phineas.)
Phineas: Fantastic, Candace! Just a couple more minutes and we'll have our summer back!
(Cut back to the abandoned warehouse.)
Rodney: Well, that was fun. (closeup to reveal Rodney and Doof carrying the grilled cheese flavored ice cream cones.) We should go get ice cream more often.
Doofenshmirtz: Didja have to order for all of us, Rodney? I'm not crazy about this new grilled cheese flavor.
Rodney: You get what you get and you don't get upset!
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, he's strict!
Rodney: I think we've given our world leaders enough time. Let's see if they submitted to our list of demands! (He activates the screen and several world leaders, including a dolphin, a Scottsman, a Chinese delegate, President Barack Obama, and a female Indian delegate appear onscreen.) Well, what have you got to say for yourselves?
President Obama: Uh...you'll be happy to know that we've...uhhhh...met all of your demands, except for the...uhhhhhhh....pretzel thing.
Rodney: What?! How dare you!! Do you know what this means?!
President Obama: Look, we're sorry. Uh...We had them, but the Vice President left the tub on the roof of the car, and we...uhhhhhhhh...
Rodney: No pretzels, no deal!
(He punches the red button. Cut to a view of the Earth.)
Rodney: (offscreen) You have doomed the Earth to perpetual winter!
(Cut to Candace as an alarm is heard blaring.)
Candace: Uh, Phineas, the holographic thingy shows that the Earth is moving in the wrong direction!
(Cut to Phineas.)
Phineas: Well, that makes no sense. It should be working.
(Cut to Candace.)
Candace: Maybe it needs more power. I'm increasing the burn!
(Cut to the rockets blaring. Cut back to Phineas.)
Phineas: No, Candace, don't!! Never push it into the red! That's a bad thing!! Turn down the thrusters!!!
Buford: This must be a special episode. He's yelling at his sister again.
(Cut to Candace as the control panel sparks and shuts down. She screams.)
Candace: Uh, Phineas, what happened?
(Cut to Phineas.)
Phineas: You must have overloaded the power relay on the control panel. You're gonna have to get a spare electromagnetic coupling fuse.
Candace: (on radio) Where would I find a thing like that?
Phineas: Ferb has one in a box in the attic.
Candace: (on radio) The attic?! Where all the spiders are?!
Phineas: Yeah, the attic.
(Cut to Candace's eyes as they widen in fear. Cut to the backyard and the city.)
Candace: (offscreen) AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHH!!!
(Cut to L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. as they hear the scream.)
Dr. Diminutive: That's just the building settling again.

Act 5
(Open on a view of the now frozen Earth.  A caption on screen reads "August..." Crossfade to the PYRAMIDS OF EGYPT!!!!!, now covered in snow. Crossfade to Danville, also completely frozen. Fade in on L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N.'s headquarters.)
Rodney: (offscreen) Now the world knows that L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N.'s not an organization to be trifled with!
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Yeah, meanwhile, you may have plunged the Earth into another ice age.
(Cut to Doof and Rodney.)
Rodney: The world is ours for the taking!
Doofenshmirtz: But this is crazy talk! I-I'm an evil scientist, not a mad scientist! Th-There's a difference! Subtle, I grant you, but, still, y'know, I don't really like the new direction this organization is taking and I think we need a little fresh air. (he walks out)
Rodney: You also need a chiropractor, Slouchy!
(The villains laugh.)
Dr. Diminutive: Good one! Because he slouches!
(Cut to a homeless and unkempt Monogram outside a building talking to a rat.)
Monogram: And as an agent, you get to wear a nifty fedora. I made that one out of an old newspaper. Yes, sir, OWCA is perfect for a guy like you, but-but, sadly, not for me.
(Doof walks up to Monogram.)
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, things are tough all over, bub.
Monogram: What? Doofenshmirtz?!
Doofenshmirtz: Wait, do...do I know you? (Monogram puts two fingers on his nose where his mustache once was.) Major Monogram? Francis, what happened to you? Look...y-y-y-you're a washed-up mess! This whole weather thing is your fault, you know!
Monogram: My fault?!
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, technically, it's my fault. But if you weren't sitting around in a cold alley whining to rats and feeling sorry for yourself, this whole situation wouldn't have gotten so out of control! Before, I was a regular evil scientist, and now, suddenly, I'm part of this big organization of supervillains bent on world domination! I'm not comfortable with that! The point is you should've been there to stop me! And you weren't! (He puts two pennies into Monogram's tin cup and walks away.)
Monogram: (picking up the cup) Huh, two cents.
(Cut to L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N.'s headquarters. Major-in-Charge Carl, Agent Monty, and Agent P approach from behind a wall.)
Monty: There's the warehouse!
Major-in-Charge Carl: Come on!
(They run up to the warehouse and climb over the fence. Major-in-Charge Carl gets stuck.)
Major-in-Charge Carl: (grunts) Oh! Guys, little help?
(Perry pushes a red button and the door opens. Carl lets go of the fence and runs inside. Cut to inside the warehouse. They see two big goons.)
Monty: What do you say, Perry? Think we can take 'em? (Perry and Monty run up to the goons.) Alright, you goons! (Two more goons appear behind the first two goons.) (to Perry) You take two and I'll take two. (Giant footsteps are heard, which is, clearly, not good news.) Great. They have a cave troll. Run!
(They run away and the chase is on.)
Monty: Perry, split up!
(Perry runs from Monty, only to be cornered by the Cave Troll. Cut to Monty who gets chased by the four goons. Only to get away from them since Major-in-Charge Carl closes the gate on them.)
Monty: Thanks, Carl.
(Cut back to Perry and the Cave Troll. They run into a laboratory.  Perry finds a few tranq darts. He fires them from a rubber band and they go straight into the Cave Troll's butt. He falls forward.)
Monty: Wow, good work, Agent P!
Major-in-Charge Carl: Great! Now we get all his health!
Monty: You play way too many video games, man.
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house attic. Candace climbs up the ladder.)
Candace: Come on, Candace, you can do this! What's a couple little spiders compared to the fate of the world? (climbs back down) Oh, who am I kidding?! I need support! (She dials her phone.) Stacy, I really need your help!
Stacy: (on phone) Sorry, Candace, no can do.
(Cut to Stacy, whose head and right arm are completely swollen from the spider bite earlier, in a hospital bed.)
Stacy: I have to stay put until the swelling goes down.
Candace: (on phone) Are you okay?
Stacy: I'll be fine. But until then, you're on your own.
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: (hangs up) Well, she's no help. I'm gonna have to do this myself. (climbs back up) It's just you and me, attic. You and me... (climbs back down) and about TEN HUNDRED GAZILLION SPIDERS!! OH, I CAN'T DO THIS!!!
(Cut to the OWCA agents in their cells. The rat agent that Monogram was talking to makes his way in and takes a bobby pin and unlocks the cell holding Peter the Panda. Peter opens his cell and the rat puts on his newspaper fedora.  The two agents salute each other. Cut to the headquarters. Doof enters.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, I've had time to think it over and we need to put the world back. I, for one, do not want to live in a perpetual winter! (pushes Rodney) Scoot over, Rodney.
Rodney: Your betrayal doesn't surprise me, Heinz. (pushes Doof) Step aside!
Doofenshmirtz: (fighting over the controls) Wh-What are you doing?
(The platform the inizer is on begins to raise.)
Rodney: Just to show you who's boss, I'm going to move the Earth even further from the sun!
(Cut to the attic. Candace sticks her head in.)
Candace: There's Ferb's box way over there. Oh, who am I kidding? I can't go way over there!
(A hologram of Phineas appears in the attic.)
Phineas: Candace?
Candace: AAAAAAHHH! Phineas, how did you get up here?
Phineas: I'm using the Ferbographic technology.
(Cut to Phineas back at Mount Danville.)
Phineas: What's taking so long? Did you find the box?
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: Well, it's right over there by all those spider webs. Be a pal and grab it for me, will ya?
Phineas: What? No, I can't pick it up. I'm a hologram. You have to do it.
Candace: But I can't!
Phineas: Well, what's the matter, Candace?
Candace: It's my fear of spiders. I've been trying to overcome it all day.
Phineas: Well, that is a valid fear. You should be cautious around some spid—
Candace: Phineas, you're not helping!
Phineas: Come on, you've already done so many brave things. Remember when you helped us recuse Klimpaloon? And what about that time you got that really big bird to quit pecking our house? Or when you climbed up on the motor of our baguette boat after I gave you a similar pep talk?
Candace: Yeah! You know what? You're right. (Climbs all the way up.) If I could do that, then I should be able to walk across the attic, right? It's being silly. Heck, I don't even remember what I was afraid of.
Phineas: Spiders.
Candace: AAAAH!!! (climbs back down)
Phineas: Candace, you forgot the box!
(Cut to Major-in-Charge Carl, Agent Monty and Perry.)
Monty: There they are! They're headin' for the roof! We gotta get up there and stop them from firing that inator!
Dr. Diminutive: (with a pistol) Not so fast, Monty Monogram!
Monty: Take it easy, we don't want any (attempts to punch but misses) TROUBLE! (backs away) What?
Dr. Diminutive: Now that we have all of OWCA's agents, nothing can stop us!
Monogram: (offscreen) That's where you're wrong! (emerges from the shadows)
Major-in-Charge Carl: Major Monogram!
Monogram: I'm back! And I brought some help! (Agent Rat appears on his shoulders and whistles, followed by all of the escaped OWCA agents.)
Dr. Killbot: ¡Qué lástima! ("What a Pity!")
(It's déjà vu all over again as the OWCA agents and L.O.V.E.M.U.F.F.I.N. engage in a very similar western-style streetfight to the one seen in Act 1, practically using the same animation.)
Dr. Diminutive: Wait a minute!!!  (record scratch) This is the same brawl we had earlier!
Dr. Bringdown: So?
Dr. Diminutive: Aw, I'm just sayin'.
Dr. Killbot: La cabeza de medusa no es agradable para ver. ("Medusa's head is not pleasant to look at.")
Villain #5: He's right! Let's get out of here!
Villain #6: That's not what he said, but...yes, we should get out of here.
(The villains all flee from the agents.)
(Cut back to the attic.)
Phineas: Candace, you're not giving up, are you?
Candace: No. (climbs back up) Today, I face my fear! Back off, spiders! Candace is in the attic!
Phineas: (offscreen) Now we're talking!
(Candace grabs an umbrella and sees two spiders crawling down from a web. She opens the umbrella and they go away.)
Candace: Ha! Take that, you little... (Several more spiders crawl down from inside the umbrella.)  AAAAHHH!!!
Phineas: Wow, I guess there are a lot of spiders up here.
(Candace trips on a loose board and finds the box, as well as several bigger spiders. She opens the box to find a huge tarantula in a cobweb. She screams way louder than before.)
Phineas: It's all right, Candace. You're just gonna have to reach past that spider.
Candace: Are you kidding me?!
Phineas: Candace, the fate of the world is at stake!
Candace: Okay, five-year-old me. Here we go. (She timidly sticks her hand into the box, only hesitating for about a second.) Gotta reach it! (The spider sticks out one of its legs.) A little...bit...further! (She grabs the fuse.) That's it! I got it!
Phineas: Great work, Candace! You go down and put the fuse in, I'll go back and tell the guys! (The hologram disappears, and then reappears.) And well done! (The hologram disappears again.)
Candace: In your face, arachnid!
(Cut to Mount Danville.)
Phineas: Candace did it, Isabella! She got the fuse!
Isabella: Um, Phineas, one of the main locking bolts came loose on the rocket, and, uh...
(Long shot to reveal the rocket now leaning over to the right.)
Phineas: Huh. Yeah, we should probably fix that before Candace puts the fuse back.
(Cut back to Doof and Rodney's fight.)
Rodney: Oh, this is just ridiculous! You and I should just... (points somewhere) Oh, look! A Horse in a Bookcase!
Doofenshmirtz: A what?
(Rodney pushes Doof away and he lands on a wall, with a mop falling on his head.)
Rodney: Ha! Now to move the Earth into a new ice age!
(The inizer activates. Shot of the Earth moving toward Jupiter again. Cut to Candace attempting to put in the fuse.)
Candace: Why isn't this thing going in? What is it? "Righty-loosey, tighty-whitey?"
(Cut back to Mount Danville where Buford is attempting to rope the rocket back into position.)
Buford: Phineas, this thing ain't budgin'!
Phineas: Candace? Candace?  (to Isabella) Why isn't this com-link working?
Isabella: The rocket is blocking the signal! We've got to get up there!
(Cut back to Rodney.)
Rodney: There. I've disabled the reverse switch and the self-destruct button. So there's no—
(Rodney gets whacked by Doof with the mop.)
Doofenshmirtz: Nobody messes with my self-destruct button! (He sticks the mop's handle into the inizer and tries to lift it up.) You make a pretty good fulcrum there, Rodney.
(Cut back to Mount Danville. Isabella climbs up.)
Isabella: Well, at least we're out of danger.
Phineas: We've gotta get the rocket in position or the planet could be torn apart!
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: C'mon, you stupid thing! Get in there!
(Cut back to Mount Danville. Ferb grunts as he loosens the bolt from the rocket. Cut back to Candace as the fuse finally gets in.)
Candace: It's in!
(Cut back to Mount Danville.)
Candace: (on radio) The fuse is in! Okay, I'm gonna fire up the engines!
(Phineas and Isabella bump into Ferb, Buford and Baljeet and hold onto the rope and put the rocket back into position as the engine activates. Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: It's not moving, Phineas! It's like something's resisting our jets!
(Cut back to the gang dangling onto the rope.)
Phineas: I was afraid of that! Listen, push the rockets up...
(Cut back to Candace.)
Phineas: (on radio) ...above the red line!
Candace: But, Phineas, you said that would be bad!
Phineas: (on radio) Well, there is a...
(Cut back to the gang.)
Phineas: ....slight chance of pulling the planet apart!
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: That's a bad thing!
(Cut back to the gang.)
Phineas: It's our only chance, Candace! We should be okay if we just do it slow and steady!
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: Oh, just like the rabbit in the story.
(Cut back to the gang.)
Phineas: Yes, exact— Wait, no! Like the turtle! Like the turtle!
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: Slow and steady. Slow and steady. (She pushes the levers up slow and steady into the red and the rockets get more powerful.)
(Cut back to the warehouse.)
Major-in-Charge Carl: Look, Doofenshmirtz is trying to destroy the inator!
Monogram: Come on! He needs help!
(They run up to Doof and jump on the mop. The inator lifts up, deactivates, and falls off the roof. Shot of the Earth going back in the right direction. Cut to Candace falling over. Cut to Linda, Lawrence and Saul falling over. Cut to Doof, Monty, and the rest falling over. Monogram falls off the roof but Major-in-Charge Carl grabs his hand.)
Major-in-Charge Carl: Hang on, sir!
Monty: Nice catch, Carl!
(Cut to Roger still on the City Hall roof holding onto the flagpole.)
Roger: I don't know what's going on anymore.
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: Phineas, what's happening?
(Cut back to the gang.)
Phineas: Unless I've missed my guess, the Earth is moving again! You better shut down the rockets, Candace!
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: Gotta get to the controls! Almost th— AAHHH! (She falls over backwards.)
(Cut to the Earth as the rockets shut off and is back in its original coordinates. Cut to Phineas and the gang.)
Phineas: It stopped. We're not moving anymore! Candace, you did it!!
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: What? I did? (She gets up to see that she pulled the plug.) Oh, what do you know? I did it! (She opens the door and smiles as she sees the snow melting.) Aw, summer. Welcome back! (The inator lands in the backyard and takes the control panel with it.) Yeah. Well, that's to be expected.
(Cut back to the warehouse roof, where Monty takes away Rodney.)
Monty: Come on, Roddenstein! You're comin' with me!
Rodney: (to Doof) See ya later, Slouchy!
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, well y— Ugh! I can never come up with anything quick enough!
Monogram: Doofenshmirtz, you just saved the world. Thank you.
Doofenshmirtz: You're welcome, Francis. Put 'er there! (Monogram holds his hand out, but Doof pulls his away) Psych! (laughs) I'm still evil! (walks away laughing)
Monogram: Yes. Yes, you are.
(An OWCA helicopter is heard approaching. Colonel Contraction drops down from the ladder.)
Colonel Contraction: Well, Monogram, nice work.
Monogram: Thank you, sir.
Colonel Contraction: Unfortunately, we're still not getting our deposit back on that rental hall and that's really broken the budget. I'm afraid we have to close OWCA.
Major-in-Charge Carl: Sir, why don't you start a new agency?
Monogram: Good idea! What do we call it?
Major-in-Charge Carl: (checks his phone) Oh, looks like the name "OWCA" just became available! Oh, and so did their old building!
Monogram: Great! We'll call our new organization that and move there!
Major-in-Charge Carl: Good idea, sir!
Monogram: And to keep costs down, we're gonna have to cut some management positions. Colonel Contraction, your services will no longer be required.
Colonel Contraction: Yeah, well, that's to be expected.
(The helicopter takes off. Major-in-Charge Carl takes off his mustache.)
(*From here on in, Monogram and Carl will now be called their usual names.*)
Carl: I think this belongs to you, sir.
Major Monogram: You keep that one, Carl. (He concentrates and instantly grows back his mustache.)
Carl: Welcome back, sir.
(Cut to the caves as Linda and Lawrence lead a nervous Saul out.)
Lawrence: Everything's all right. We're all outside.
Saul: Oh, sweet sunshine! (kneels to the ground) Terra firma!
Lawrence: Yes, well...
Saul: (kisses the ground) Lovely top soil!
Lawrence: We'll, uh, just be going then, shall we?
Linda: Bye, Saul!
Saul: Mwah! Mwah! Mwah! Ugh! Kissed a bug!
(Cut to the backyard as Phineas and the gang enter.)
Phineas: There she is, the hero of the day! Nice going, Candace! Hey, where'd the command center go?
Candace: Probably the same place the last one went.
Baljeet: You really did a good job, Candace.
Candace: Yeah, and not only did we save the world, but I did everything I promised five-year-old me I'd do!
Buford: Let's all pretend like we understood that!
Phineas: Well, now that we have summer back, what should we do?
Buford: Oh! Oh! I got an idea!
(Song: "Summer All Over the World" (reprise))
(Phineas and the gang resume their concert, now joined by their friends who helped them with the rockets.)
Phineas: ♪ Come on, ev'ryone! ♪
Band and Crowd: ♪ We're havin' a party! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Dancin' in the sun! ♪
Band and Crowd: ♪ We're havin' a party! ♪
Phineas: ♪ And you know we're not done! ♪
Band and Crowd: ♪ We're havin' a party! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Ev'ry corner of the world, yeah! ♪
All but Ferb: ♪ 'Cause it's summer, summer all over the-- ♪
(Pull out to the Earth, which explodes and everyone dies. The end.)
(Well, not really, because the director credit for Buford appears onscreen.)
Everyone but Ferb: Buford!!!
(Cut to reveal everyone but Ferb angry at Buford while looking on the laptop.)
Buford: I think there must be somethin' wrong with this program.

End Credits
Irving: Everybody! ♪ Doodly doodly dee ♪
Audience: Dengue fever!
Irving: ♪ Diddly diddly doo ♪
Audience: Whooping cough!
Irving: ♪ If you go into the woods, ♪
♪ Then this will happen to you! ♪ (Audience cheering)
♪ Nature's gross! ♪
Thank you! Thank you very much. My mom taught me that song!
(Pull out to the Earth, which explodes and everyone dies. The end.)
(Well, not really, because the director credit for Buford appears onscreen again.)
Everyone but Ferb: Buford!!!



(Scene opens on the house.)
Phineas: (from inside) Okay, Ferb, let's get this early morning party started.
(Song: Quirky Worky Song)
(Cut to inside the house as Phineas is squeezing some oranges into a pitcher and Ferb is making pancakes. Cut to a cupboard. A chicken clucks and lays an egg. The egg goes down a slide and cracks into a frying pan. Cut to Phineas holding a tennis racket. He swipes a popped piece of toast with it. Ferb catches it and then some. Cut to Phineas by a percolator. He pours some coffee. Cut to Ferb putting some blueberries onto the plate. Phineas and Ferb wheel the breakfast out. Ferb returns to make the percolator disappear.)
(cut to Lawrence in his room)
(Lawrence and Reginald Fletcher imitate plane sound)
(cut to Lawrence's computer)
Reginald: Okay, prepare for landing. That's it, lad, don't let the turbulence throw you. Ha ha! Ha ha!
(cut to Lawrence)
Lawrence: Roger that, Papa Bear.
(cut to Reg)
Reginald: I'm so glad we can still have our Father's Day jaunt in the biplanes.
(cut to Lawrence)
Lawrence: Oh, yes, modern technology's wonderful. I know it's not quite the quite the same as...




Phineas: (him and Ferb walk in the hallway) Hang on, Ferb.


Lawrence (cont'd): ...the real thing but I suppose it's better than nothing.


Phineas: Whoa, Ferb, I know what else we're gonna do today. (walks in Lawrence's room) Surprise! Happy Father's Day, Dad. And you too, Grandpa Reg.
Reginald: Hello, boys.
Lawrence: Oh, how lovely. Breakfast in den.
Phineas: (reveals the Phineas and Ferb pancakes) Ferb and I pulled out all the stops.
Lawrence: What excellent likenesses! Ha ha ha! Thank you, boys.
Candace: Happy Father's Day, Dad.
Reginald: (on the computer) Hello, Candace.
Candace: (in Cockney accent) 'Ello, Grandpa Reg. (normal voice) Happy Father's Day.
Reginald: (on the computer) Thank you, love.
Linda: Hello, Reg. Are you having a "Grand"-Father's Day? (laughs) Hoo hoo!
Reginald: Ha ha ha! Good one!
Linda: I'll leave you boys to your Father's Day fun. Candace, are you ready to go?
Candace: Sure, mom. Bye, grandpa.
Reginald: 'Ey, where's Perry?
(cut to Perry as he enters by using a playground set and hovers in the air)
Major Monogram: Morning, Agent P. I see you're trying out the new SFU 2000. It's a lot of fun, but don't let your duties slide.
Carl: Agent P, what do you think of his Father's Day gift?
Major Monogram: Yes, it's a lovely tie, but I'm not your father! (to Perry) Anyhoo, Doofenshmirtz has plans to gum up the entire Tri-State Area. And we need you to check it out. Good luck, Agent P.
(Perry slides down the slide into the Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated building)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry gets trapped with gum)
Doofenshmirtz: Gotcha, Perry the Platypus! If you think this is a sticky situation, you better hold on to that fedora. Behold, the Gum-Under-The-Shoe-inator! I took all the wadded up chewing gum in the entire Tri-State Area and fed it into this -inator. Yeah, I know, it's really unsanitary. Why don't people just throw the chewing gum in the trash? Huh?
(Doofenshmirtz and Perry get shot by the -inator)
Doofenshmirtz: (sighs) Today just isn't my day. It's Father's Day. It's the hardest of the greeting card company holidays for me. My issues with Father's Day began back when I was a child.
(Flashback from Lawn Gnome Beach Party of Terror.)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) Those were lean times for my father and our beloved lawn gnome was repossessed.
(End flashback.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, I know you've heard that one before, but...twice actually...but I really think that this is where my relationship with my father went awry.
(Resume flashback.)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) I mean, he made me be that lawn gnome!
Doofenshmirtz's Dad: Bewegen sie nicht! ("Don't move!")
(End flashback.)
Doofenshmirtz: I mean, he was really specific, too. He made me memorize the serial number of that particular lawn gnome. (While he talks, Perry goes onto the computer and opens the Lawn Gnome Tracker app.) DAEHM23. If only there was some way to reunite him with, y'know, that specific lawn gnome, maybe he and I could start again. (Looks at the computer.) DAEHM23?! You found him with an online gnome tracker? Wow, there really is an app for everything now, isn't there? Well, let's see. It says it's still in Drusselstein! Now I can heal the old wounds between my father and me! (gets up and walks but is stuck to the chair) Oh, man that is one of my most brilliant ideas yet! (His pointy nose pops the huge bubble made from the gum.)
(Cut to the backyard where Phineas and Ferb are working on a biplane.)
Phineas: An exact replica of Grandpa's old biplane! Dad's gonna love this! (He and Ferb climb in and put on their helmets and goggles.) Let's try 'er out! (The plane takes off.) Now punch it! (Ferb pushes a button on a remote control and four jet engines come out from the wings and the plane increases speed.) Yeah!
(Cut back to D.E.I. as the roof opens.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) I know traveling by cannon is a little unconventional...
(Cut to reveal Doof wearing a pilot's uniform and carrying Perry in a baby carrier and climbing into a giant cannon.)
Doofenshmirtz (cont'd): ...but the cannon place was going out of business, so I got them at a volume discount. (lights the fuse) Hang on. (The cannon fires.) Woohoo!
(Vanessa arrives at the door with a basket.)
Vanessa: Happy Father's Day, Dad! Dad?
(Cut to an airborne Doof and Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: Sorry for the lack of inflight meals or entertainment, Perry the Platypus, but one cannon can only go so far, so I set up a worldwide network.
(They land in another cannon somewhere in a field and take off again. Cut to a canon on an island. Doof and Perry miss their target and land in the water.)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw man! Missed it by that much!
(Cut to the backyard where the plane lands.)
Phineas: Perfect landing, Ferb! I'll go get Dad. (Cut to the sliding door. Phineas leads his father out.) No peeking, Dad! Keep 'em closed! Okay, open 'em!
Lawrence: (gasps)
Ferb: Tada!
Lawrence: (voice breaking in tears) Thank you so much, boys! I can't think of a better Father's Day gift!
Phineas: Actually, there's a hidden feature you might wanna check out.
Reginald: (emerging from the passenger seat) 'Ello, son!
Lawrence: D-Dad?! B-B-B-But...
Reginald: C'mon! Give us a hug!
Lawrence: (hugging his father) Oh, happy Father's Day!
Reginald: What do you say we go on our traditional Father's Day flight?
Lawrence: Race you to the cockpit!
Phineas: Have fun!
Lawrence: What are you two standing there for? You're part of the tradition now! Come on!
Phineas: Cool!
Reginald: Right then! Engine...contact...
Lawrence: Here we go!
(The plane takes off.)
Lawrence: Wooooooooo!
(Song: Fletcher Family Flying Circus)
Lawrence and Reg: ♪ In our two wing aeroplane, ♪
♪ Doing tricks that look insane ♪
♪ To keep the peoples entertained ♪
♪ And leave them breathless. ♪
♪ Call us brave or slightly mad ♪
Lawrence: ♪ I'm his son and he's me dad! ♪
Reg: ♪ And I look really grand in plaid ♪
♪ But now I'm vestless! ♪
Lawrence: Nice ad lib, Dad!
Reg: Thanks, son, I just roll with it.
Lawrence and Reg: Like you do!
(In harmony) ♪ It's the Fletcher Family Flying Circus ♪
♪ Doing aerial acrobatics in the atmosphere ♪
♪ High above the stress and strife, ♪
♪ There's nothing here to irk us;
♪ Just a father and a son together, ♪
♪ Keepin' our heads above the weather, ♪
♪ I wish that we could do this every year! ♪
♪ Barrel rolls and loop-de-loops, ♪
♪ Buzzing that encounter group, ♪
♪ Doing the Charleston on the wing, ♪
♪ Yes! We'll try almost anything! ♪
♪ A dim old man, an English bunt, ♪
♪ A crazy Russian circus stunt, ♪
♪ A Cuban eight, an inverted spin, ♪
♪ All while wearing this foolish grin! ♪
♪ It's the Fletcher Family Flying Circus ♪
♪ Doing aerial acrobatics in the atmosphere ♪
♪ High above the stress and strife, ♪
♪ There's nothing here to irk us; ♪
♪ Just a father and a son together, ♪
♪ Keepin' our heads above the weather, ♪
♪ I wish that we could do this every year! ♪
♪ We're the Fletcher Family and we have no fear! ♪
(Cut to Drusselstein where Doofenshmirtz and Perry finally land...on a cat no less.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, Drusselstein! This way, Perry the Platypus. (Doof and Perry get up and the cat meows. Cut to outside Ye Olde Pawn Shoppe.) Okay, so the gnome tracker located my father's long lost lawn gnome to this location. (He opens the door and gasps.) There it is! (He picks up a lawn gnome, but it talks.)
Gnome: Hey, put me down!
Doofenshmirtz: Ah! I thought you were my father's lawn gnome.
Gnome: No worries. I get that all the time. Probably due to my height combined with my eccentric fashion choices.
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, yeah. Huh. Well, I'm looking for DAEHM23.
Gnome: (picks up the real lawn gnome behind him) Oh, yeah, it's been here for years. Here you go.
Doofenshmirtz: It is you! My father will be so happy! Well, maybe not happy, but anything is an improvement over surly and dismissive. Let the father-son healing begin! (He arrives at the old Doofenshmirtz house and takes Perry out of the baby carrier.) Wish me luck, Perry the Platypus! (Perry smiles and gives him a thumbs-up.)
(Cut to inside the house.)
Doofenshmirtz: (knocks and opens the door) Hello? Father? You're never going to guess what I brought y— (He trips on the floor mat and the gnome shatters to pieces.)
Doofenshmirtz's Dad: Oh, hello, Heinz.
Doofenshmirtz: (sadly) Hello, Father.
Doofenshmirtz's Dad: I see you've brought me assorted broken bits of pottery for Father's Day. Well, I suppose it's the thought that, um...counts. Your brother, Roger, remembered how much I loved that old lawn gnome, so he sent me this. (walks up to a giant lawn gnome) Look, it also makes espresso. (The gnome opens a compartment door and an espresso spout pours some into a mug, which Doofenshmirtz's dad takes out and sips.) Delicious. But, you know, rubble is...a nice gift, too.
Doofenshmirtz: (voice breaking in tears) Alright...um...Happy Father's Day. And...okay, bye-bye. (leaves)
Doofenshmirtz's Dad: All zis way just to give me broken shards of potter— (gasps and sees the serial number) DAEHM23?!
(Cut to outside where Doof sits on the curb with Perry sadly.)
Doofenshmirtz: (sighs) Well, that could've gone better. (Perry consoles him.) Why do I even bother, huh? At least there's one relationship in my life that's worked out pretty well. Thanks for coming along, Perry the Platypus. Let's go home. (They walk away from the curb.) You are my rock. (Cut to a cannon.) And by that, I mean you're there for me, you're not made out of rock. You're actually made out of...well, platypus, probably. (They climb into the cannon, which fires.)
(Cut to the backyard where the Fletcher Family Flying Circus lands.)
Lawrence: Well, that was the best Father's Day flight yet! It brought back some some wonderful old memories and created a lot of new ones. Thank you, boys, for making this possible!
Phineas and Ferb: (hugging their father) Happy Father's Day!
Lawrence: Yes. Yes it is.
Reginald: Crikey! It's getting late! I best be on me way home. Mind if I borrow your new aeroplane?
Lawrence: Why don't you hang onto it 'til next year? I've got no room left in the garage anyway.
Reginald: Will do! Cheery-bye!
(The plane takes off just in time for Linda not to see it.)
Linda: Hi, honey! Hi, boys! So how was your day?
Lawrence: Oh, the boys and I spent a wonderful day flying with Father!
Linda: Ah, the internet is a wonderful thing.
Lawrence: Well, yes, I...pfft...s'pose it is.
Linda: Well, here's something special from Candace and me.
Candace: (giving her father a gift box) Here you go!
Lawrence: (opening the box) Oh, my! An exact replica of Father's biplane! Oh, it's perfect! (giving his daughter a hug) Thank you so much, sweetheart!
Candace: Happy Father's Day, Dad!
(The rest of the family join the hug.)

End Credits
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated ♪
(Doofenshmirtz walks up to the basket Vanessa left behind.)
Doofenshmirtz: (reading) "To the most evil dad in the whole world, Happy Father's Day. Love, Vanessa." Aw, a gift basket of switches and self-destruct buttons. (pushes a self-destruct button) That's my girl! (smiles)
(cut to Doof's dad; music starts; he attempts to repair a lawn gnome)
Doofenshmirtz's Dad: Bewegen sie nicht! ("Don't move!")



(Scene opens up at Googolplex Mall. Cut to Candace and Stacy browsing clothes.)
Candace: Hi, Mom. Stacy and I are gonna have lunch here at the mall so we'll be hanging out a little longer. (Stacy shows a ferret headband to Candace as she gives Stacy a thumbs up)
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher House. Linda is seen reading the newspaper.)
Linda: I thought you probably would.
Candace: (voiceover) Are the boys doing anything bustable yet?
Linda: Not yet. Although they are trying to figure out how they can both use the push broom at the same time.
Candace: OK, keep me posted. (hangs up)
(Phineas and Ferb are seen using the push broom: Phineas pushing the broom while Ferb guides him by standing on the broom and pointing straight.)
Phineas: Hey, Mom. We're going down to the park to fly our kites.
Linda: You guys wanna ride or something?
Phineas: I thought you had to meet with those landscaper guys.
Linda: Oh right, I forgot. (reads leaflet) Du Bois (Du-bwa) Landscape Artists.
♪ Du Bois (Du-Bwa) Landscape Artists! ♪
Phineas: Also, that's yesterday's paper.
Linda: I thought the city council was getting a little redundant.
(A truck honks outside. Cut to front yard, where two men step out of their truck)
Man With Glasses: Hello. I'm Pierre Du Bois (Du-Boise). One-day landscape artist. (shakes hands with Linda)
Linda: Hi! Oh, it's not Du Bois (Du-Bwa)?
Pierre: No. It's just like it's spelled. It's French!
♪ Du Bois Landscape Artists! (slightly faster) It's just like it's spelled, it's French! ♪
Pierre: Except Floraine ain't French. He's from Dutch.
Floraine: (speaks in Dutch)
Pierre: That's Dutch for "It's nice to meet you.".
Linda: Huh. To my American ears, it almost sounded like, "Where's Perry?"
(Cut to an arcade store with a sign that said "Richard's Arcade". Perry is seen walking into it, putting on his fedora, and jumps into the P-Drop arcade game, becoming part of it while jumping over chimneys and bouncing off a banana tree down a tunnel to his lair.)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. Special surveillance photos tells us that Doof is outfitting his skiff with something. It's hard to tell--
Carl: (offscreen) Sir, I looked up the window at his building just now, and saw the mysterious object was actually a bucket. A huge bucket.
Major Monogram: (to Carl) Carl!? Why didn't we just look out the window in the first place?
Carl: I don't know sir.
Major Monogram: Doggone it Carl, we can't keep wasting out funds like this! (to Agent P) Well anyway Agent P, I guess you can go over there and see what he's gonna do with that large bucket. (Agent P leaves)
Carl: Is he gone sir?
Major Monogram: Yeah, c'mon, let's go to Vegas.
(Cut to Baljeet holding a large silver stick with a spiral at the end. Buford runs to him while holding a pirate ship model.)
Buford: Hey Baljeet, check this out! It's a kite, but it totally looks like a pirate ship!
Baljeet: That is very nice! (He walks up a ladder supported by a huge dragon kite as the scene pans out. Chinese music plays.) Have you seen my kite?
Buford: Wow! Is it there even be enough wind for something like that?
Baljeet: There should be, with Phineas's wind amplification device.
(Cut to the wind amplification device at work, then cut to Phineas and Isabella near it.)
Isabella: So, how does this work again?
Phineas: You start by blowing a bit of wind into the intake funnel. (Phineas inhales, then blows into the funnel. Pan to a tank filled with liquid that looks like water, in which Phineas points at it.) Then we have super cool liquid nitrogen to cool things down. Cold air sinks, until it starts to warm back up again. (Pan to a huge blow torch) And that's where we heat it up with a giant blow torch. And then, as it accelerates, it sucks up more air volume, and eventually blows it out with acceleration. (Pan to a huge funnel that opens up to let wind out. A bird flying into it loses all its feathers and is blown away.)
Isabella: But that was just one big puff of air! How can we fly kites like that?
Phineas: Simple! Irving has volunteered to keep puffing air into the intake. (Irving is seen climbing up a ladder.)
Irving: I've been eating mint all morning! (shows a bunch of mint) You know, so it won't be stinky!
Isabella: That's very thoughtful of you, Irving.
Irving: (snidely) I didn't really do it for you.
(Cut to Flynn-Fletcher backyard. Linda, Pierre, and Floraine are seen walking into it.)
Linda: So here's the yard. I want something nice out here. I think you know what to do. (everyone stops walking, Linda turns to landscapers) You are the landscapers after all.
Floraine: Ze is gelijk in. ("She's right about that.")
Pierre: Actually, we are landscape artists. (picks up car door with poster) Do I need to show you the car door again?
♪ Du Bois It's Lands-- ♪
Linda: No, no. It's fine. I'll be inside if you need me. (walks away)
Floraine: Een - nul. ("One - nil.")
Pierre: No, I didn't get the money up front.
(Cut to Phineas on a gigantic robot kite.)
(Song: "Quirky Worky Song")
Phineas: Is everyone's kite ready?
(Cut to all five kites. Ferb is on a pterodactyl-like kite, Isabella is on a horse-like kite, Buford is on a ship-like kite, and Baljeet is on a dragon-like kite.)
Baljeet: All set.
Buford, Isabella: Ready!
Phineas: OK Irving, let her rip!
(Cut to Irving.)
Irving: Roger wilco! (He inhales and then blows with all his might into the wind amplifier. The amplifier then blows out a huge amount of wind. The kites start to fly.)
Isabella: It's working!
Buford: Wow, minty! (Cut to him) Ah hoy! Avast ye sworty dogs!
(Cut to Baljeet.)
Baljeet: Wow Buford, you look like a real pirate!
Buford: That's nothing. Watch this. Fire! (A cannon in the ship shoots out cannonballs.)
Baljeet: (getting hit by the cannonballs) Ow, ow, ow ow ow!
(Cut to Isabella.)
Isabella: Hey Phineas, watch this! I'm jumping clouds! Whee!
(Cut to Phineas.)
Phineas: That's awesome, Isabella. Watch this! (His robot kite turns into an automobile.) Now I'm in a car!
(Pan to Ferb. The same bird who got its feathers blown away gets eaten by the pterodactyl-like kite. Ferb gets the bird from the mouth and releases the bird.)
(Cut to the exterior of Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, then to Doofenshmirtz holding a pair of binoculars.)
Doofenshmirtz: Enjoy your welcome-to-Danville lunch and ladies. (Point of view shot from Doof.) Soon, Grulinda, you shall taste the wrath of--(Perry suddenly appears in front of binoculars) Perry the Platypus?! (Cut to Doof and Perry.) Oh, before I forget, I got you a little lair-warming gift. (Doof gives him a ring box. Perry opens it, and a yellow rope is tied tightly around him.) Ha ha! You fell for the old spring-loaded-cable-trap-hidden-in-a-ring-box trick. What the? Th-that's a thing. Obviously. I bet you're wondering why I'm spying on a garden party. (Cut to Doof.) OK, maybe not wondering, but I'm going to tell you anyway. (Flashback.)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) It all started when I was a child, back in Drusselstein. There was this mean girl named Grulinda. Every day she would pour water on my head. (Young Grulinda laughs after pouring water over young Doofenshmirtz's head.) No matter where I was, (Young Grulinda again pours water over young Doofenshmirtz's head and laughs.) or what I was doing, (Young Grulinda again pours water over young Doofenshmirtz's head and laughs.)
Young and Present-day Doofenshmirtz: (together) Stop pouring water on me!
(in the flashback)
Mr. Doofenshmirtz: Bewege dich nicht! (Don't move!)
(End flashback.)
Doofenshmirtz: But by some wonderful twist of fate, (Doof shows Perry a magazine with a picture of an ugly girl and a beautiful one.) she has moved here to Danville! See? (reads caption underneath picture) Grulinda Boubenweir moves to Danville, party being held in her honor at Danville Park. (stops reading, cut to Doof and Perry.) And the party just started, I don't know how they got this picture in the magazine so quick. Eh, I guess they're trying to compete with the internet. (closes magazine) But, I digress! (cut to a giant bucket of water.) I can finally have my revenge! With this! (turns to Perry) The Sog-inator! (evil laugh) Now I will fly over her party, and douse her, with a lifetime of soggy humiliation! (pause) What? Oh, you think that it's petty that I held onto this grudge for so long. Oh, it's not petty. It's not. (looks at Perry sarcastically) It's evil or something; it's not petty.
Linda: Okay guys, I'm dying to see what you-- (gets shocked and drops tray of lemonade. The lemonade falls to the ground and breaks. A cat's yowl is heard.) What is that?
(Cut to landscapers and a landscape that looks like a bucket spilling out water.)
Pierre: Well it's not finished yet. But it's juxtaposition of the irrigated world of the suburban lawn the dryness of the natural summer environment. A water bucket dumping desert cacti, honey suckle basket, weak glass handle, extra spiky bubble cacti in place of the water.
Linda: (angrily) That looks- that's- (groans, walks away)
(Pierre smiles at this)
Floraine: Ik denk niet dat ze het leuk vindt. ("I don't think she likes it.")
Pierre: Not to worry, great art always takes time before it's accepted.
(Cut to inside of Flynn-Fletcher House. Linda is having a headache, and the telephone rings.)
Linda: Hello?
Candace: Mom, I need you to go into my closet and tell me what--
Linda: (places hand on forehead) Candace, I- look- call me in a few minutes. I'm a little ticked off right now.
Candace: (she gets a surprised expression on her face.) What happened?
Linda: Du Bois made a huge mess in the yard; they ripped off the lawn, there's a giant bucket, and a bunch of catuses. (raises voice in an angry way) I'm so mad! I gotta go.
(scene switches to mall)
Stacy: Candace, what's wrong?
Candace: (weakly, referring to Phineas and Ferb) It's the boys, they're busted. (She falls over.)
(Cut to Candace lying on the floor in disbelief, zooming in on her and rotating slowly.)
(Song: "Straight Up Bust")
Candace: ♪ I don't believe it, Stacy ♪
♪ The moment is here ♪
♪ My brothers are busted ♪
♪ Put it on the blogosphere ♪
♪ I've been vindicated ♪
♪ There is no more to discuss ♪
♪ I did not anticipate it, it's a straight up bust! ♪
♪ It's a straight up bust, say it all over town ♪
♪ Things are looking up because my brothers went down ♪
♪ It's a brand new day to take a while to address ♪
♪ And it makes me wanna say, everybody, it's a straight up bust! ♪
(Cut to Danville Park, then pan up to Doofenshmirtz's hovering machine)
Doofenshmirtz: We should be over Grulinda's party any minute. Then it's soggy revenge time! (part of water from giant bucket falls off) Whoa! It's windy up here. If that keeps up, I don't have enough water to dump on her. (Perry thinks for a while, then bumps giant bucket on purpose. He does this one more time.) What? Did you hear that? (Perry just keeps quiet)
(Cut to Irving about to inhale air, then blows. Drops of water fall on him, then gets sucked in by the intake funnel.)
Irving: Uh oh.
(The amplifier causes the huge amount of water to fly out, causing a great storm.)
Baljeet: Whoa!
Isabella: It's getting a little "rainy".
Buford: A little!
(Cut to inside of car kite with Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella inside.)
Phineas: Looks like we better climb down.
(Cut to pirate ship kite with Baljeet and Buford clinging on to the deck.)
Buford: Just remember, Baljeet, a captain always goes down with the ship. (gives hat to Baljeet)
Baljeet: Oh boy, a promotion. (Buford jumps down, and he realizes.) Hey!
(The gang jumps down, but Baljeet is the last one.)
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz and his hovering machine.)
Doofenshmirtz: What's that noise? (the huge amount of water splashes onto the machine, causing Doofenshmirtz to hold on to the handle.) What the heck there? You've been dumping out my water? Oh, this had better not not be empty.
(Cut to Linda with a sarcastic look on her face.)
Pierre: (offscreen) Okay Linda, I know you're gonna love this. (Cut to landscapers standing next to a giant spinning wheel.) This is the irrigation wheel! Each section represents a different section of the garden. (spins wheel) It's a comment on the capricious nature of our existence. (wheel stops spinning, and arrow points on a band of flowers) Some get water and live, others go dry and die!
Linda: (facepalm) This is ridiculous. I don't want to end up with a yard full of (pause) dead plants!
Floraine: Ik heb water in mijn laarzen. ("I've got water in my boots.")
Linda: (with still hand on forehead) What did he say?
Pierre: He said, (angrily) "GREAT ART TAKES TIME!" (normal voice) in Dutch.
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz and his hovering machine again. Doofenshmirtz is climbing up onto the giant bucket of water using a ladder. Perry goes up onto the handle.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, watch it. (falls over) Ugh! Now watch the ailerons! (He falls into bucket again. He climbs out of the bucket. The bucket falls over and crashes onto the wind amplifier. It breaks, causing Doofenshmirtz to fly into the air carried by a huge amount of water. The water shoots into the clouds, and Doofenshmirtz falls back down to earth. Perry tears apart his trap, jumps off, and catches Doofenshmirtz by his left leg. The parachute goes off. As Perry and Doofenshmirtz, the storm clears, but Doofenshmirtz falls off again, and Perry is left with only his left shoe. He lands into a tree, and the tree flings him onto the ground, causing him to roll to Grulinda's party. He stops at a woman's feet, and thinks it is Grulinda.) Oh, you! I almost dumped a giant bucket of water on you and your party. And there was this whole mishap with the platyp- but I will get you next time! Revenge is a dish best served soggy, Grulinda!
Mean Woman: Uh, Grulinda's over there, bub.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, you're not... (turns to the other person and clears throat) All right, Gruuuuuuu...
Grulinda: Wait! Is that... hold on one second. (reaches for glasses and puts them on, then gasps) Soggy bottom Heinz Doofenshmirtz! It is you.
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, you've changed. You used to be so... you know, what's the polite way to say... you know, like this one? (points to mean woman) Ugly.
Mean Woman: Oh oh, you're on my list now, buddy.
Doofenshmirtz: So why are you being so nice to me.
Grulinda: Nice? I don't understand.
Doofenshmirtz: You picked on me all through grade school.
Grulinda: (chuckles) I poured all that water on you, because I liked you.
Doofenshmirtz: Really? We, we, well I guess you must have liked me a lot, 'cause there was a lot of, you know, water.
(Cut back to the song)
Candace: ♪ I got more time to play ♪
♪ (And this is totally a straight up bust!) ♪
♪ My life's a big buffet ♪
♪ (And this is totally a straight up bust!) ♪
♪ I know this sounds cliché ♪
♪ But this is totally a straight up bust! ♪
Candace: Wait, what am I doing? (Reveal she is on a forklift.) Stacy, get me off of this thing! I need to see what the boys have done!
(Cut to landscapers showing off a garden sculpture of a woman, part-body, holding a bunch of flowers and thorns with her eyes closed.)
Pierre: She holds the thorns, which symbolizes the hardships of being a mom, and she holds pink jasmine, which symbolizes the joy of children.
Linda: This, is, the most, (does the puppy eye look) sweet and adorable thing I've ever seen. (walks away)
Pierre: (in a loud and not-so-happy voice) Sweet and adorable? (angrily) She's mocking us!
Floraine: Nee, ik denk dat ze echt leuk vindt. ("No, I think she really likes it.")
(Cut to Grulinda and Doofenshmirtz holding hands.)
Grulinda: It is so good to see you after all these years, just look at you! Oh, come here, my little soggy bottom. (hugs Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Eh, well, eh, now, you hug now.
Grulinda: Oh, why are you all wet?
Doofenshmirtz: He, he, funny thing. I was flying over your party with a giant bucket of water, and this platypus hit me with a--
Grulinda: Why are you flying over my party with a big bucket of water?
(The mean woman appears)
Mean Woman: He's gonna dump on you for revenge.
Doofenshmirtz: OK, now you're on my list.
Grulinda: Revenge? For what?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, you know, you did dump water on me when we were little.
(The mean woman walks away.)
Grulinda: Heinz! I was eight! Have you been holding this petty grudge all these years?
(The mean woman reappears with a cup of water.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh no, it's not petty; I was explaining to the platypus earlier; it's not--
Grulinda: (angrily) Well, here you go. I pour water on your head. (pours water on Doof's head. She then throws the cup to Doof, and she and the mean woman walk away.)
(Zoom out to reveal Perry walking to Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: Wait. Was that for the vengeance thing or do you still like me? (Water is thrown onto Doof. To Perry) Yeah, it was the vengeance thing. (a cup is thrown onto Doof.)
(Cut to living room where Linda is sitting down reading a book, just as Candace runs to her.)
Candace: (excitedly) Tell me. What are the boys doing at the backyard? How much trouble are they in?
Linda: Well, at first, I thought Du Bois were the world's worst landscapers, but they're growing on me.
Candace: (suddenly surprised) Landscapers?
Linda: Yeah, here, let me show you.
(Cut to the gang in the backyard.)
Phineas: So I figure we can attach the seat right here--
Candace: (offscreen) There they are, Mom. (onscreen) Show me what they did.
Phineas: What did who do?
(Cut to Linda.)
Linda: Whoa, wait. Where did it all go?
Candace: (sarcastically) Ha ha.
Linda: (surprisingly) How is that even possible?
Candace: Very funny, Mom.
(Close-up look of Candace and Linda.)
Linda: It was all here just a second ago.
(Cut to the landscapers driving away with the landscaping supplies shown earlier.)
Pierre: (angrily) I have never been so insulted in my life! (Cut to inside of truck.) She called it sweet and adorable!
Floraine: Mijn voeten doen pijn en ze nat zijn. ("My feet hurt and they are wet.")
Pierre: (normal tone) By the way, Floraine, I have no idea what you are saying.
Floraine: Would you rather I spoke in English?
Pierre: Well yeah, now that you mentioned it, yeah.
(Cut to truck driving away.)

End Credits
(Song: "Straight Up Bust")
Candace: ♪ I don't believe it, Stacy ♪
♪ The moment is here ♪
♪ My brothers are busted ♪
♪ Put it on the blogosphere ♪
♪ I've been vindicated ♪
♪ There is no more to discuss ♪
♪ I did not anticipate it, it's a straight up bust! ♪
♪ It's a straight up bust, say it all over town ♪
♪ Things are looking up because my brothers will be down ♪
♪ It's a brand new day to take a while to address ♪
♪ And it makes me wanna say, everybody, it's a straight up bust! ♪



(Open up on a building with the Lady Justice statue on top it. A caption displays saying O.W.C.A.-TRAZ: SUPER SECRET MAXIMUM SECURITY PRISON. Crossfade to the cell holding a rather angry Dennis the Rabbit. Cut back to outside the building where Norm gets lowered down on a helicopter. He removes the statue of Lady Justice.)
(Song: "Doof 'N' Puss" (instrumental))
(A disco ball lowers from the helicopter into the hole and deflects the lasers. The bottom half of the disco ball juts in and a mechanical hand draws a circle on the cell and cuts through it, and a boot from it breaks the cell. A rope ladder then emerges from the ball, which Dennis climbs up. Cut back to the roof.)
Norm: All set, sir.
Doofenshmirtz: (laughing)
(Cut to Isabella's backyard where a marionette show is taking place)
Denmother Puppet: Okay, just this once, Fireside Girl. I'm gonna let you ask about my business.
Fireside Girl Puppet: Denmother, are you a puppet?
Denmother Puppet: I'm a marionette. Fuggedaboutit. You gotta fam'ly? Go home to your fam'ly.
(Light applause is heard as the curtain closes.)
Phineas: Wow, Isabella, you have some mad marionette skills.
Isabella: Thank you, Phineas!
Phineas: I know I use this word a lot, but you and the Fireside Girls were awesometacular! I wish more people could experience your talents.
Isabella: Well, we only have so many folding chairs.
Buford: Maybe it would help if your puppets were bigger.
Phineas: What do you mean, Buford?
Buford: My uncle Oslo from Oslo used to make huge marionette puppets!
(Flashback.)
Buford: (voiceover) People would come from miles around to see 'em. Or at least they would have, if he ever finished one.
(End flashback.)
Phineas: Wait, Oslo's in Norway. I thought your family was Dutch.
Buford: Eh.
Phineas: Nevertheless, Buford, I think you may be onto something. (to Isabella) We can build a huge weird puppet, and you guys could take your marionette skills to the people in the streets.
Buford: Yeah, that'll freak 'em out!
Phineas: So whadaya say, Isabella? Are you ready to take the next step?
Isabella: (romantically) Oh, Phineas, yes! I've been right here in front of you all along just waiting for you to... (romantic music distorts) Oh...wait. You were talking about the puppet, weren't you?
Phineas: Well, yeah. What were you talkin' about?
Isabella: (sarcastically) Nothing! I uh, was just...heh heh heh—Hey, where's Perry?
(Cut to Agent P's lair.)
Major Monogram: Agent P, we have a situation. Dennis the Rogue Agent, formerly our most wanted rodent—
Carl: (offscreen) Lagomorph, sir.
Major Monogram: What's that, Carl?
Carl: (offscreen) Sir, they used to be considered rodents, but were reclassified in the early twentieth century.
Major Monogram: Oh, well, I'll have to fix that then. Carl, run out and buy me a new set of encyclopedias.
Carl: (offscreen) A set of what, sir?
Major Monogram: Hmm. Anyway, Dennis, the most wanted lagomorph, miraculously escaped from O.W.C.A.'s maximum security prison sometime this morning. Evidence suggests that Dennis was snatched away by a ninja-disco-robot. If this isn't the work of Doofenshmirtz, (Perry takes off) then Carl will eat my hat.
Carl: (offscreen) Hey!
(Cut back to Isabella's backyard. A truck carrying giant logs of wood backs up on the other side of the fence.)
Driver: (offscreen) I got your 22 and 1/2 tons of reclaimed pine logs.
Phineas: Hey, aren't you a little young to be driving a semi-trailer with 22 and 1/2 tons of reclaimed pine logs?
(Cut to reveal the driver, who looks like a baby.)
Driver: No. No I'm not. (points to the logo on the truck)
(Song: "Babyface Truckin'")
♪ Babyface Truckin' ♪
♪ Our drivers look like children but they're not! ♪
Driver: Now back up. Here come your logs.
(The logs pile into Isabella's backyard.)
Phineas: Thanks, Babyface Trucking guy!
Driver: Now if you'll excuse me I gotta head home. Is nap time. (He takes off.)
Isabella: Is that everything, Phineas?
Phineas: Yep! Let's build us a huge marionette!
(Cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Cut to inside, where Norm and Doof are standing by the disco ball.)
Doofenshmirtz: You can come out now, Dennis the Rabbit! (The disco ball opens revealing Dennis in cutesy animal mode.) Aw, look how cute! He's cute! (to Norm) Isn't he cute, Norm?
Norm: He's adorable! And so soft...and warm...and squishy!
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, back off, Lennie, you're creepin' me out! (to Dennis) And you, you're not fooling anybody with that cutesy stuff! I happen to know that you are a very bad bunny. And I am...like, totally cool with that! See, I want to defeat Perry the Platypus and take over the Tri-State Area, and what I think I'm lacking is a certain animal instinct to get the job done. You have animal instincts, but what you lack is the evil scientist technology. And that is something that I have. So using my evil scientist skills, I'll make it possible for you to defeat Perry the Platypus while I watch from a safe distance. And together, we'll take over THE TRI-STATE AREA!! Whadaya say? Are you with me? (Dennis holds up his fist.) Great! I always wanted a rodent for a partner.
Norm: (offscreen) Lagomorph, sir.
Doofenshmirtz: Gesundheit.
(Cut to the puppet stage, which is now a control center.)
Isabella: Wow! This thing's so cool, Phineas! Everyone ready?
Phineas: All ready back here! How you doin', Ferb?
(Cut to Ferb in the back reading a newspaper. He looks up to give a thumbs up. Cut to outside to reveal the giant Fireside Girl marionette.)
Isabella: Come on, everyone! Let's take this show to the crowd!
(Song: "Giant Puppet Show")
(Giant marionette.)
♪ Walk, walk, ♪
♪ Giant puppet girl so sweet. ♪
♪ Shift and slowly blink, ♪
♪ Freak out the people on the street. ♪
♪ (They don't know what to think.) ♪
♪ Move your articulate accordion jaw, ♪
♪ Bow your head politely, ♪
♪ Drift through the crowd like a European ghost, ♪
♪ Now raise your hand just slightly. ♪
♪ Ooh...ooh... ♪
♪ Ooh...ooh... ♪
Man 1: It looks like she's trying to tell us something important, in her own silent enigmatic way.
(Cut to a random viking appearing out of a crowd.)
Viking: I feel this puppet is telling us to look into our souls and find the power to embrace love for all humanity.
Man 2: Hey, everyone, the viking is right!
♪ Moving... (Marionette) slowly... ♪
♪ Shifting... (Giant) slightly ♪
♪ Just by moving slowly and shifting slightly, ♪
♪ The puppet Fireside Girl is telling us ♪
♪ To look into our souls and find the power ♪
♪ To embrace love... ♪
♪ (For all humanity.) ♪
(Cut to Doof walking into a chamber.)
Doofenshmirtz: Now, before I let you loose on the O.W.C.A., this should make you much more formidable. (shows a backpack, but walks down the still moving up escalator) I like to call it my...my...my my my mymmymy (JANE! STOP THIS CRAZY THING!) I guess the escalator wasn't such a good idea after all. Oh, well. Live and learn. Anyway, I like to call it my Transmogrification-Backpack-inator! (straps it on Dennis) It'll give you a robotic exoskeleton that can transform into almost anything. And it's perfect to wear undercover, so no one will ever suspect. Except, maybe, to say, "Hey, look, there's a rabbit wearing a backpack." Go ahead! Give it a try! (A giant hand appears on Dennis' right paw, which blows a hole in the roof.) Hey! What the heck, man?! I live here! You can't go blowing holes in my stuff! (the robotic hand disappears) Now, try it again. (The inator produces a giant robotic body onto Dennis with huge hands, which he uses to hulksmash the floor.) Eh. Okay. Also, no smashing things in here! I'm gunna have to make a list for you, aren't I? (Dennis blasts off) Hey! Wait! Let me open the— (CRASH!) roof.
(Cut to Agent P on his hover car. He sees the robotic Dennis and drives away from him. Dennis smashes the car and Perry parachutes out. Dennis launches a carrot missile at Perry, which misses him. Perry lets go of the parachute and lands in his backyard. Dennis' inator suit transforms again and he picks up Perry.)
Candace: (offscreen) It's true. Ferb told me. It's called rennet, Stacy. (Cut to Candace and Stacy walking in.) They scrape it from the lining of a calf's stomach to make cheese.
Stacy: And yet, when I wanna talk about sushi, you say it's disgusting.
Candace: Omigosh! Cutie Patootie! My long-lost pet rabbit! (Picks up Dennis) Where've you been?! Oh, honey bunny, was Perry bothering you? Poor little fluffy britches patootie pants, let me get you home.
Stacy: Stay down, breakfast. Stay down.
(Cut back to the creepy marionette.)
Isabella: Hey, guys, the crowd is loving it!
Buford: Isabella, I'm all puppeted out! What say we take a lil' break an' get some eats?!
(Cut to the marionette approaching Mr. Slushy Dawg.)
Isabella: (offscreen) Let's take five.
(Cut to the garage.)
Candace: Cutie Patootie, I got your chowsie-wowsie! (gasps) Oh! Stacy, he's gone! Where do you think he went?
Stacy: Maybe he's down at the docks.
Candace: Yeah, maybe he—"Down at the docks?"
Stacy: Or maybe he's just playing with his friends.
(Cut to Perry being thrown against a brick wall. Dennis' inator suit punches through the wall. Perry flees from the rabbit and sees the giant marionette.)
♪ Giant marionette ♪
(Perry goes into the control room and activates the puppet into fighting mode. The puppet punches Dennis. Dennis fires more carrot missiles, blowing the control room apart. Perry climbs onto the head of the puppet and manipulates it manually. Crouching puppet, hidden bunny.)
Dennis: (growls)
(Dennis presses a button, and a glass dome emerges over him.)
(Cut to Doof's living room.)
Doofenshmirtz: Time to see how my little friend is doing. (to the camera) You see, I installed a bunch of nanobot cameras on his backpack.
Norm: Who installed them?
Doofenshmirtz: It was my idea! (turns on the TV) Oh, there he is. And he's fighting a giant puppet girl. What? There's something very familiar about the way she fights. Wait a minute. (The puppet punches the camera and the screen goes to static.) Perry the Platypus?! (Gets off the chair) That does it! I'm going down there!
(Cut to Buford, Phineas, Isabella and Gretchen inside the restaurant as the fight continues behind them.)
Phineas: The big difference is that the marionette has strings, while a puppet is hollow, so it can be manipulated from within. But that doesn't mean that a marionette can't be hollow or a puppet has strings. The thing to remember is that some people take the subject very seriously, even though, technically, there's no difference grammatically. I looked it up.
(Cut back to the fight.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) There he is, Norm! Down there! On top of the puppet! (Doof gets lowered on the rope ladder.) Lower! Perfect! (Falls down.) Aah! Gotcha! Heh heh! Give up, Perry the Platypus! You know nothing of puppetry— (Perry manipulates the puppet to punch Doof.) Ow! Okay, I-I admit it, y-you do have a certain knack for it. (Perry manipulates it some more. Wide shot to reveal Doof tied up in the strings.) Okay. Well, maybe, "knack" wasn't the right word. (Perry manipulates it to flick Doof off.) Oh no. No no! (Doof gets flicked off the head.) Whoa! (The puppet dives into the ocean.) Curse you, Perry the—blub! (Coughs.) Platypus. I was trying to say, "Platypus."
(Cut to underwater.)
Dennis: (gasps)
(Perry takes a laser from his fedora and cuts the dome holding Dennis. Dennis swims out of the suit and climbs onto the dock. Perry follows him.)
Doofenshmirtz: (drifting away on the puppet) Okay, I guess I'll see you both later. Unless I miss my guess, I'm on my way to...Norway, so, uh, take it easy, Dennis the Rogue Rabbit and uh, curse you, Perry the Platypus!
Candace: (offscreen) Mr. Patootie! (cut to Candace and Stacy) Where are you?
Stacy: There he is!
Candace: (gasps) Mr. Patootie! (runs off)
Stacy: (to the camera) Whadaya know? He was down at the docks.
Candace: Oh, Cutie Patootie, I'm so glad you're safe and sound!
Phineas: There you are, Perry! Cool, Candace, you found your rabbit.
Major Monogram: (appearing in disguise with Carl, also in disguise) Oh, look! There he is! My pet bunny, Mr. Bigelow! I've been lookin' everywhere for you! Get over here, you naughty lagomorph!
Candace: But he's... (to Phineas) Do I have to?
Phineas: Well, he is a lagomorph.
Candace: Oh, okay. (gives Dennis to Monogram) Here.
Major Monogram: You've been a bad little bunny. (walks off with Carl) Now let's get you back to your...special room.
Candace: I don't know. There was something weird about those two.
Phineas: Whadaya mean, Candace? Rabbit owners come in all shapes and sizes.
Candace: A flight helmet and cowboy boots?
Stacy: I think the tall one was wearing a wig.
Ferb: And the other one had a false mustache.
(A helicopter is heard whirring.)
Candace: Plus, they're leaving by helicopter.
(The helicopter flies away.)
Phineas: You do realize that none of those observations disprove my statement, right?
Ferb, Candace and Stacy: Yeah.

End Credits
(standalone broadcasts only)
(Song: "Giant Puppet")
♪ Walk, walk, ♪
♪ Giant puppet girl so sweet. ♪
♪ Shift and slowly blink, ♪
♪ Freak out the people on the street. ♪
♪ (They don't know what to think.) ♪
♪ Move your articulate accordion jaw, ♪
♪ Bow your head politely, ♪
♪ Drift through the crowd like a European ghost, ♪
♪ Now raise your hand just slightly. ♪



(Opens showing the Flynn-Fletcher house, then the camera cuts to Phineas, Ferb and the gang in the backyard.)
Phineas: Come on gang, let's get started on building our megamondo--
Buford: Eh, no can do, Dinner Bell! It's family day, and the Van Stomms from the low countries are visiting. (walks away) Buford is out, G!
Phineas: Well that's a bummer. But we can come over some workarounds. (to Isabella and Baljeet) So if you two--
Baljeet: No can do, Phineas. I am taking an eastern Indian cooking class. We are going to make goat vindaloo. If we can ever find a goat. (goat brays offscreen) Oh! There is one now. Gotta run! (runs away)
Phineas: Well, good luck! (pauses) Well the plans will still work with just three of us.
Linda: (walks up) I'm afraid your plans will have to wait until after Ferb's dental appointment. (walks Ferb with her) Come on, honey, time to go!
Ferb: All right.
(They exit.)
Phineas: Wow, I've never seen Ferb so nervous. Hmm. Well I guess it's just the two of us, huh. (Isabella squeals excitedly with an exaggerated smile on her face.) Isabella, are you all right?
Isabella: (slaps herself, acting normal) Oh. Oh yeah. We can spend the day together, that'll be fun! Whatever.
Phineas: Let's see; with only two of us, we'd have to reallocate some weight in order to... (pause) Huh. Well, maybe if we just reduce the amount of... (sighs) No, that won't fly either. Y'know, this is a lot harder without Ferb around.
Isabella: But he never says anything.
Phineas: It's not what he doesn't say, it's how he doesn't say it.
Isabella: Well I can get the Fireside Girl Manual for inspiration.
Phineas: That sounds great! Thanks.
(Isabella runs off)
Phineas: Wow! Even Perry's gone... but that's pretty normal.
(Perry secretly dives into a cereal box, and falls into his lair, followed by a heap of cereal.)
♪ Doo be doo be doo bah ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo bah ♪
♪ Perry! ♪
Major Monogram: I see you've taken our new breakfast-themed lair entrance. It's the most important lair entrance of the day. Anyhoo, OWCA has surveillance footage of Doofenshmirtz raiding thrift-store dollar bins. Not sure if it's evil, but it's, just kind of pathetic. Get to the bottom of this, and stop Doof's potential poverty-driven criminal freakout. And um, how 'bout ya pick up a cup of coffee for him on your way over? It's on me. Use some petty cash. (Perry salutes, then leaves) I feel bad for the poor guy.
(Cut to the Fireside Girls lodge, then to a red telephone under a glass lid on a podium. It rings.)
Gretchen: (offscreen, gasps) The Fireside Phone!
(On the end of this, Gretchen and Ginger rush up, the latter takes off the glass lid, the former answers the phone.)
Gretchen: Gretchen at the ready, ma'am! Commence debriefing!
(Cut to Isabella on her smartphone outside her house.)
Isabella: Gretchen, we have a Code Pink! Romeo is alone! Repeat: Romeo is alone!
(Cut back to Gretchen.)
Gretchen: Roger that. Don't panic, we're on our way.
(Cut back to Isabella as she puts her phone away. Gretchen is suddenly standing next to her.)
Gretchen: (saluting) Reporting for duty, ma'am.
(Isabella blinks twice in confusion.)
(Flip to Gretchen leading Isabella to Holly, who is blowing up an inflatable Fireside Girls clubhouse.)
Gretchen: The troop is establishing the mobile tactical headquarters as we speak!
Isabella: Nice hustle. (She and Gretchen walk inside.)
(Holly pulls a cord, and an inflatable tree blows up next to the clubhouse.)
(Cut to Candace, walking in the street on her phone with her eyes closed.)
Candace: I know, right? With Phineas and Ferb split up for the day, it's practically a vacation! (She passes by Isabella's house with the clubhouse next to it in the background.) Yes, I know we're already on summer vacation, Stace. I was just -- (Opens her eyes and turns around, notices the clubhouse) What? A Fireside Girls mobile tactical unit? Sorry, Stace, gotta go! (Hangs up and runs off.)
(Cut to inside the clubhouse, Candace barges the door open.)
Candace: Okay, what are you doing (Walks up to Isabella and Gretchen) and what has to do with my brothers?
Isabella: Um... (Scoffs, cut to the other girls working on a scale model on a table, continues offscreen) it's...something of a delicate matter.
Milly: Romeo is all go!
Candace: Delicate?
Isabella: Well, you might not know, but I have a little bit of crush on Phineas?
Ginger: (offscreen) Little being subjective.
Isabella: (dryly) Stand down, Fireside Girl.
Candace: (realizing) Totally get the crush thing! You know, I don't quite get the Phineas thing. I mean, you do realize his head is a triangle.
Isabella: (Sighs, romantically) Yeah, it's so acute!
Candace: Whatever. I have got your back, sister. I will stay outta the yard, and keep Mom out of the way too. (Folds her arms) Like, that should be difficult.
(Cut to the exterior of Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated as the Evil Jingle doorbell rings. Cut to inside, Perry is outside the door to Doofenshmirtz's apartment, holding a coffee cup. The door opens, Doofenshmirtz comes out, having a 5:00 shadow on his face.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, it's you, Perry the Platypus. (Perry presents him the coffee cup.) What? Oh, for me? (He takes it.) Oh, that's a nice gesture, thanks. (Perry walks inside.) A-and you even used the doorbell instead of just crashing through, like you usually do. Alright, really appreciate this, Perry the Platypus, 'cause you know, money's a little tight lately, I can't even rub two nickles together. (Cut to Perry standing on a white patch of floor, he continues offscreen) Although if I had two nickles, I don't think I could sit and rub them together. (While saying this, Perry stares at the screen, then eventually sinks into the floor.) Oh, oh yeah, you're trapped, Perry the Platypus, (Cut to him) it's quick hardening, non-dairy creamer. Like I said, I'm on a budget. I know what you're thinking, Perry the Platypus, how could this happen to such a (Close-up of a stern Perry, he continues offscreen) withed guy like Heinz Doofenshmirtz? (Cut to him) Well, my ex-wife Charlene is out of the country on one of those...Extreme Eco-cultural Exploration Vacations. I -- I don't know what they do on those trips, but I imagine it's (crossfade to a still image of Charlene zip-lining with money flying out of her pocket, he continues offscreen) very expensive. (dissolve to her kayaking) Ugh, she's got some nerve! (cut to her hula dancing) That's -- that's my alimony she's throwing away! (cut back to he and Perry, he's showing him the images on his phone) And the worst is, she keeps texting me these pics! (puts it in his pocket, it beeps and vibrates) Oh, come on, really?! (walks offscreen) Anyway, the problem is I've already spent this month's alimony on my new -inator and -- (cut to him walking towards his new inator) and now I don't have enough money left to send Vanessa to the Grievance movie marathon she wants to see, and they're playing all the Grievance movies in order. They've got The Grievance, they've got Grievance 2: The Gripe, Grievance 3: Bone To Pick, and Grievance 4: The Revenge of the Italian Jug Band. You know, I don't think that last one is canon. Oh, what kind of father am I? Oh, oh, the shame is overwhelming, I can't even enjoy using my new Teleport-inator! (Music sting plays, ominous timpani follows) Nah, nah, I'm just not in the mood. Maybe tomorrow.
(Cut to a radio broadcast room where The Slacks stop playing the music)
Doofenshmirtz: And it was such a stellar plan, too. I was gonna use it to send City Hall, and consequently my brother Roger, back to Drusselstein, and out of his mayoral jurisdiction. No fuss, no muss, just bzzt, and he's gone, instantly. (Cut to Perry, who counts down on his fingers.) Ugh, if only if it were that easy to get Vanessa to the movie theater, wait -- (Perry points at him.) hey, wait a second! (looks at the giant dial on the inator) I could just add another setting to my Teleport-inator and send Vanessa directly to the theater, and completely bypass those ridiculously inflated movie ticket prices. Oh man, am I good! That deserves a victory sip. (drinks coffee) Egh! Wait—what is this, decaf? (cut to a put-out Perry) It's like you don't even know me!
(Cut to the clubhouse)
Gretchen: (from inside) Alright, Fireside Girls. (cut to her in front of a computer and speaking into a microphone, Ginger stands next to her) Initiating Operation: Perfect Picnic.
(Cut to Isabella outside the backyard gate)
Isabella: (into her earpiece) Roger that! (opens gate and walks in)
(Cut to Candace in the living room reading a book, she sees the action outside.)
Candace: Well, looks like the operation is in phase two and I am gonna make myself scarce. (Stands up) Cadet Flynn is out, peace! (walks away)
(Cut to outside, Isabella opens the Fireside Girl Manual.)
Isabella: Here we go. Let's just take a look -- (gets a thoughtful look, sounds like a valley girl) You know, I'm kinda hungry.
Phineas: Well then, why not just have a picnic?
Isabella: (acting) Well. What a great idea! And I just happen to have... (shows picnic basket, singy-songy) a picnic basket right here!
(Cut to Gretchen at the computer.)
Gretchen: Ooh, she's good.
(Cut back to Phineas.)
Phineas: Wow! Way to be prepared, Isabella!
Isabella: (acting) Just doing my Fireside Girl thing! I packed it with some Mexican-Jewish delicacies like... (she shows a cheesecake like meal with a gelatin fish head.) gefilte-flan! (close up of it) It wobbles.
Phineas/Isabella: Eww! (laugh)
Phineas: That looks ridiculous!
(On the end of this, zoom out as Irving looks over the fence. Cut to Holly looking at a radar.)
Holly: Oh no! We've got a Code Irving!
Gretchen: Strike team deploy!
Isabella: Let's see what else I've got.
(Irving opens his mouth to speak, but is dragged down out of sight.)
Phineas: Did you hear something?
Isabella: Nope!
(Cut to inside the clubhouse, the door opens, and the girls bring in a bagged Irving.)
Ginger: (salutes) Mission accomplished!
(Adyson pulls off the sheet, revealing Irving, all tied up.)
Irving: Hello, ladies! (purrs)
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz working on the Teleport-inator.)
Doofenshmirtz: The fox hops over the log...the rabbit crawls under the log... (ties wires in a bow, closes compartment) okay, got it! Now, to send -- (falls off) Ahem. And now, to send my daughter to the movies! (horror music plays) Aw, you see, it's just doesn't work in this instance. You know what, you guys just take the rest of the day off.
(Cut to the Slacks)
Slack #1: Want to go see a movie?
Slack #2: Yeah, sure. How about Grievance 4?
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey Vanessa, Pumpkin Pants. Can you come in here for a second? (turns knob, Vanessa enters) Good news, sweetie, I can send you to the movies after all!
Vanessa: Really? Dad, it's no big deal.
(On the end of this, Doofenshmirtz presses a button which activates the inator. Vanessa gets zapped, and disappears.)
(Cut to a movie theater filled with kids, Vanessa appears among them.)
Kids: ♪ Ducky Mo, Ducky Momo ♪
(Vanessa facepalms, pan to the right revealing Candace singing along.)
Candace and Kids: ♪ Ducky Mo, Ducky Momo ♪
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz.)
Doofenshmirtz: I did it! (Cut to Perry, who looks up at the coffee cup. He continues offscreen) And now that my super dad status is intact, it's time to take care of business! (Perry hops over to the table and grabs the cup.) And by business, (Perry takes the lid off the cup) I mean evil. (Perry pours the coffee on the creamer block, melting it.) It's time to set my sights on (Cut back to him) on City H -- (Perry kicks him, he slides down the inator.)
(The knob on the inator spins around, then fires at a flower vase on a table, making it disappear.)
(Cut to two tourists looking at a painting in a museum.)
Male tourist: Hmm. (The vase and table appear in front of the painting.) Ohh, now I get it!
(Cut back to Doofenshmirtz, the Teleport-inator starts teleporting things everywhere.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hmm. I didn't count on an oscillate function, Somehow I...I don't think this bodes well for my plan.
(Cut to Holly watching Phineas and Isabella on a monitor.)
Isabella: (onscreen, acting) That's one of my own creations! I call it the Enchillatke!
Phineas: (onscreen) It was delicious!
(Cut to D.E.I., a ray from the Teleport-inator fires. Cut to Ferb at the dentist, the ray hits him and he disappears.)
Dentist: Ah, here we are. (turns around, sees that Ferb's gone) Gladys, we have a runner.
(Cut back to the backyard, Phineas opens the picnic basket. Isabella yawns, then leans over. She ends up putting her arm around Ferb, who has appeared. She looks up at Ferb, gasps, and inches away, just as Phineas looks up.)
Phineas: Hey, Ferb! You're back! (Ferb doesn't say anything.) Brilliant! (to Isabella) See what I mean, Isabella?
Isabella: (acting, sounds a bit sad) Yeah, it's how he doesn't say it.
Phineas: Let's get to work, this'll be the biggest picnic ever! (walks off) I'll get the tools!
Isabella: (into her earpiece) Alright girls, Union Jack is back. Operation: Perfect Picnic is now Operation: Ginormous Non-romantic Overblown Picnic.
Ferb: (with his mouth full of procaine) Ab flabahem abla flapabla.
Isabella: It's alright, big guy. You guys just do what you do.
Phineas: (runs into the scene, blueprints in hand) Looks like we're gonna need a change of venue. How 'bout the park?
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz and Perry's fight. Perry gets zapped by the Teleport-inator and disappears.)
Doofenshmirtz: What do you know? No more Perry the Platypus. Transported to some random location somewhere. (Perry reappears and punches his nose, he disappears.) Ow! What -- (Perry reappears behind him, grabbing his head.) OW!! OWEY!
(Cut to Candace and Vanessa walking away from the theater, which was showing "Ducky Momo Festival".)
Vanessa: Thanks for introducing me to the ironic enjoyment of Ducky Momo, Candace.
Candace: Ironic, yeah. Ha ha. So, your dad was really raised by wild ocelots?
Vanessa: O.M.G., I wish that was (Candace suddenly stops walking and stares in shock.) the weirdest thing about my family. (Close up on Candace.) Candace? (Reveal she is looking at a picnic themed amusement park from Danville Park, she walks back to her) Oh, you know, amusement parks really aren't my thing, but... (walking away) Knock yourself out, girl! ♪ Ducky Mo, Ducky Momo, he's your very best friend! ♪
Candace: Okay, I said I'd give them space for a romantic picnic, that is not a romantic picnic. That is Bust Town U.S.A.! (She enters the park.)
(Song: "Pic-A-Nic Bust")
Candace: ♪ Here is where I'll make my final stand ♪
♪ I'm gonna bust my brothers down in Picnicland ♪
♪ In Picnicland... ♪
(Camera rotates around an amazed Candace, whose expression gives way to a triumphant smile.)
♪ It'll be a Pic-A-Nic-A-Nic-A-Nic Bust! ♪
♪ A Pic-A-Nic-A-Nic-A-Nic Bust! ♪
♪ A Pic-A-Nic-A-Nic-A-Nic Bust! ♪
♪ A Pic-A-Nic-A-Nic-A-Nic Bust! ♪
♪ I can bust them at the grill ♪
♪ Or the hotdog on the hill ♪
♪ A Pic-A-Nic-A-Nic-A-Nic Bust! ♪
♪ I can take them on the waffle tram ♪
♪ With a side of deviled ham ♪
♪ A Pic-A-Nic-A-Nic-A-Nic Bust! ♪
♪ This is gonna be my finest hour ♪
♪ 'Cause now I'm gonna bust the boys with ♪
♪ Picnic Power! ♪
♪ It'll be a Pic-A-Nic-A-Nic-A-Nic Bust! ♪
♪ A Pic-A-Nic-A-Nic-A-Nic Bust! ♪
♪ A Pic-A-Nic-A-Nic-A-Nic Bust! ♪
♪ A Pic-A-Nic-A-Nic... ♪
Candace: (dialing phone) I am so gonna relish this bust! (answers it) Mom!!
(Cut to Linda driving in her car with an earpiece.)
Linda: Candace, it'll have to wait. I've gotta pick up Ferb from the dentist.
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: Mom! Ferb's here! At the park!
(Cut back to Linda.)
Linda: Oh, well, he must've gotten out early. I'm on my way.
(Cut to Baljeet with the Tjinder family having a picnic.)
Baljeet: Try our famous Tjinder family vindaloo!
(Pan left revealing Buford and the Van Stomm family also having a picnic)
Buford: No, no. Try our Van Stomm family bitterballen!
Baljeet: (running) Try the vindaloo!
Buford: (also running) Bitterballen!
Baljeet: Vindaloo!
Buford: Bitterballen!
(Both bump into each other.)
Baljeet: Hey, you got your bitterballen in my vindaloo.
Buford: And you got your vindaloo all over my bitterballen!
Baljeet: I wonder if these two great tastes will taste great together.
Buford: Nah. We should kill this with fire.
Baljeet: (pauses) Agreed.
(Cut back to D.E.I., Perry is still fighting Doofenshmirtz and the Teleport-inator is still firing.)
Doofenshmirtz: (groaning)
(The ray from the Teleport-inator hits the mirror again, it hits itself, plus Doofenshmirtz and Perry. They all disappear.)
(Cut to the picnic amusement park where the Teleport-inator and Doofenshmirtz and Perry appear.)
Doofenshmirtz: What happened? Something just happened. I smell bitterballen. Where are we? (Perry lifts his hands off his eyes.) Hey, not bad, I can totally go for a mid-afternoon walk. (Perry hops onto the Teleport-inator and looks at the self-destruct button.) What are you doing? (Perry turns the knob to the "home" setting.) CURSE YOU PERRY THE -- !
(The entire amusement park disappears, leaving behind a normal park landscape.)
(Cut to the park entrance where Candace brings Linda over as usual, Phineas and Isabella can be seen behind Candace.)
Candace: Over here, you gotta see this!
Linda: (notices Phineas and Isabella) Oh, Candace, you're right.
Candace: I am?!
Linda: That is just adorable.
Candace: (turns around) What?!!
(Close up on Phineas and Isabella under a tree.)
Phineas: Wow. I don't know where it all went. It's a good thing we brought our own basket, huh?
(Isabella squeals excitedly, but slaps herself again.)
Isabella: (acting) Yes. Yes it is.
(Cut back to Linda with a dumbfounded Candace, she puts her hand on her shoulder)
Linda: Come on, Candace. Let's go home.
Candace: But but but—a whole park!!
Linda: Yup. (walks Candace away with her) And just the two of them.
Candace: (offscreen) I get it. But, ew.

End Credits
(Song: "Punky Momo")
Kids: ♪ Bring on Ducky, Ducky Momo. Bring on Ducky, Ducky Momo. ♪
Candace and Vanessa: ♪ Who's the happy time toy-toy? ♪
♪ For every girl and boy-boy? ♪
♪ Who's the fuzzy enjoyment? ♪
♪ Make fun with Ducky Momo! ♪
Kids: ♪ Bring on Ducky, Ducky Momo! ♪
Candace and Vanessa: ♪ Ducky Mo, Ducky Momo. ♪
♪ He's your very best friend. ♪
♪ Ducky Mo, Ducky Momo. ♪
♪ He's your very best friend! ♪



Part 1
(Song: "My Undead Mummy" (instrumental))
(Scene opens up on the Flynn-Fletcher house at early sunrise.)
Candace: (offscreen) Okay, Stace. Let's try again.
(Cut to Candace's bedroom where Candace is playing with Stacy's face.)
Stacy: (mumbles)
Candace: It's really more in the cheeks. Like this: "Nang nang nang nang nang nang nang..."
Stacy: Oh, I give up! It's a good thing you won that contest to perform backup with Love Händel.
Candace: Yes, in "The Ballad of Klimpaloon", I will be playing Klimpaloon. Check out my Klimpy style!
Stacy: Girl, I have already cashed that check, and I don't even know what that means.
Candace and Stacy: (giggle) Girl talk!
(horn honks)
Linda: (offscreen) Honey, the limo's here to take us to the award show!
Candace: Be right there! (gasps, to Stacy) I gotta go!
Stacy: You go, girl!
(They attempt to high five each other, but miss.)
Candace: Let's never speak of this again.
(Cut to the living room. Phineas and Ferb are dressed in tuxedos reading a book on the couch. Linda and Lawrence walk in dressed as Lindana and Max Modem, respectively.)
(*They will be noted as Lindana and Max Modem from this point on.*)
Max Modem: Come on, boys. Time to go.
Phineas: You guys look great!
Max Modem: Well, Lindana and Max Modem have to look their best when presenting our category, don't we?
Lindana: Whatcha got there?
Phineas: This is the first journal of the famous explorer, Sir Alvin Shackleberg. He was the first person to sight Klimpaloon, the magical old-timey bathing suit that lives in the Himalayas. We got this to help Candace research her "Nang nang nangs" for "The Ballad of Klimpaloon".
Max Modem: How marvelous. It reminds me of the time when—
Candace: Sorry, Dad, there's no time for that now. We gotta go while I'm still in the zone. (walking like Klimaploon) Nang nang nang nang nang nang nang.
Phineas: She's good. (gets off the couch and walks out with Ferb) It's like Klimpaloon was right here in the room with us.
(Cut to outside.)
Phineas: Whoa, sweet limo! Ferb, I know what we're gonna do tomorrow! (Ferb shows a blueprint) How do we do it? Hey, where's Perry?
(Cut to Perry putting on his fedora. He runs off and gets a yoga mat and meditates.)
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah ♪
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah ♪
Perry: (chatters)
(Psychedelic transition to a hilly plain. We hear Indian music. Major Monogram appears floating on a cloud with a third eye on his forehead, long flowing hair and a beard, wearing an Indian robe and playing a sitar.)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P, I see you got the memo. It's Transcendental Meditation Week. Namasté. (He bows and Perry bows back.) Doofenshmirtz has been spot—Carl, enough with the drumming!
(Whip pan to Carl and both Agent D's playing djembes on another floating cloud.)
Carl: Sorry, sir, I just, sorta, got into a groove.
(Cut back to Monogram and Perry.)
Major Monogram: Anyway, Doofenshmirtz has been spotted as a seat filler at the Fourth Annual 24-Hour Tri-State Area Music Awards. As you know, Doof's brother, Roger, is emceeing the event. We're not sure what he's up to, but we need you to suss it out. (His floating cloud starts to rain.) That's the... That's the cloud. Good luck, Agent P!
(Psychedelic transition back to the backyard. Perry runs off, then runs back to take his yoga mat with him.)
(Cut to the pavilion where the awards are being held. Applause is heard.)
Announcer: Live from Random Stadium, Random Swimwear presents The 4th Annual Tri-State Area Music Awards: The Tristies! Sponsored by Random Swimwear. Be wet...arbitrarily. Tonight's musical guests include Love Händel, Slamm Hammer, Tiny Cowboy, 2 Guyz N the Parque, Danny and the Jaytones, the Paisley Sideburn Brothers, Marty the Rabbit Boy and His Musical Blender, and many, many more. Seriously, many more, 'cause it's...it's 24 hours. And now, welcome your host and lovable mayor, Roger Doofenshmirtz!
Roger: We've got a lot great music for you tonight, and a lot of...other music. So let's get things started, shall we? Please welcome to the stage our presenters for the fact-based song category, the girl who just wants to have fun and the guy who, I guess, wants fun to have with. Lindana and Max Modem!
(Song: "I'm Lindana and I Wanna Have Fun!"/"Alien Heart" (instrumental))
(Cut to Candace offstage.)
Candace: Yeah! (whoops) Go, Mom! Go, Dad!
(The microphone raises up from the platform, but it only goes up to Lindana and Max's legs.)
Stage Manager: (offstage) Just go! Just go! I'll fix it later!
Max Modem: (bends down) Our first nominee for...
Lindana: (also bends down) ...the fact-based song category is, Slamm Hammer, with their hit, "Trees are Made of Wood".
(Applause. Whip pan to the band Slamm Hammer playing their song.)
(Song: "Trees are Made of Wood")
Slamm: ♪ Wow! Trees are made of wood! ♪
(The song ends. Slamm drops the mic and the band leaves to applause. Cut back to Lindana and Max as the microphone suddenly raises up way too high. Cut to the stage manager giving a thumbs up. Lindana gets on Max's shoulders. Cut to the audience where Doofenshmirtz is seen sitting.)
Lindana: (offscreen) The second nominee in the fact-based song category are the Hockey Hooligans with "Hockey Z-9".
Doofenshmirtz: (talking over) Excuse me. Pardon me.
(Song: "Hockey Z-9")
Doofenshmirtz: Excuse me. Excuse me, pardon me.
Hockey Hooligans: ♪ Oh, yeah! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Excusez-moi. Con permiso, por favor.
Hockey Hooligans: ♪ Don't turn away, I'm talking to you, sir ♪
♪ 'Bout the post-apocalyptic sport of the future ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Hee hee!
(Cut to backstage as the song continues. Doofenshmirtz sneaks into a door labeled "wardrobe". Agent P follows him. Cut to the Wardrobe room.)
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Aha! Perry the Platypus, your timing is incredible! And by that, I mean, "Completely credible!!" (Traps Perry in a wig) But you've found yourself in a hairy situation! Because of the trap, it's...Which is a wig. Stop me if you've already made the connection. Anyway, you're just in time for my latest inator. (Takes out a spray bottle.) Behold! (Perry just looks at him unimpressed.) I know what you're thinking. And, no, I did not invent a spray bottle, Perry the Platypus. Just stay with me through my backstory, alright? You see, I was reading The Danville City Charter...again, when I learned an interesting fact.
(Flashback.)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) Back in 1805, Danville actually elected a warthog as mayor. The public was fed up with the previous administration and thought, "Hey, what's the worst that could happen?" Nepotism, that's what. He filled the cabinet with his uncles and brothers and distant cousins and all of City Hall was full of swine. Except for one chair that they kept empty, so y'know it wouldn't be...
(End flashback.)
Doofenshmirtz: ...so conspicuous. So it was decided never to allow another warthog to be in a position of authority. Pe-Perry the Platypus, are you texting while I'm monologuing?! (He is. Doofenshmirtz takes the cell phone away. Perry simply shrugs.) Y'know, I'm just gonna hold onto this until I'm done, (puts phone in his pocket) 'cause I can get your full attention. Anyway, I'm thinking, "Nepotism. City Hall. My brother, Roger." And suddenly, I know what to do! Turn my brother into a warthog!
(Flashback to D.E.I., where Norm is in a tub stomping on some warthogs.)
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) So, through the use of pseudo-technology, I created this elixir, that, when sprayed on an individual, actually transforms them into a warthog.
(End flashback. Perry simply looks at him again.)
Doofenshmirtz: What? I said, "pseudo." Anyway, once I collected enough elixir, I put it in this: my Warthog-Sprayer-inator! See? There's a method to my lameness. I'm gonna find out when Roger's on stage and then I'm gonna turn him into a warthog in front of everybody! That will remove him from power because of the aforementioned Warthog Nepotism Act. But, y'know, the embarrassment is just a...it's a cherry on top.
Stagehand: (passing by) Right this way, Mr. Mayor.
Doofenshmirtz: (gasps) Now's my chance! (kisses) Peace out, Perry the Platypus!
(Doofenshmirtz storms out the door. Perry opens the door with his duck bill.)
(Cut to backstage.)
Stagehand: Love Händel with Candace Flynn, you're on in five!
Candace: OMG, OMG, OMG, OMG, OM—
(Cut to the stage. The microphone is now way too low. The stage manager beckons for them to move on. Max shrugs.)
Lindana: I guess just introduce the next act.
Max Modem: (sticking his head into the hole) The last nominee in the fact-based category, "The Ballad of Klimpaloon" sung by Love Händel...
Lindana: (also sticking her head into the hole) ...who are joined by contest winner...
Lindana and Max Modem: Candace Flynn!
(applause)
Ferb: (wolf-whistles)
Phineas: Go, Candace!
(record scratch)
Slamm: I object! The song does not belong in the fact-based song category! Klimpaloon is not real!!
Phineas: What?!
Ferb: What?
Lindana: What?
Sherman: What?
Danny and Bobbi: What?
Candace: What?
Everyone: WHAT?!?!!
Sherman: My nana told me stories about Klimpaloon.
Slamm: Well, that's not good enough. Seeing is believing! And no one has ever seen Klimpaloon!
Candace: Um, excuse me, but I have seen him!
Phineas: That's right! You tell 'im, Candace!
Mr. Random: (emerging from the shadows) I'm afraid that's not good enough either.
Max Modem: Ladies and gentlemen, Mittington Random!
(applause)
Mr. Random: Thank you, Max...errr...whoever. Mittington Random here, sponsor of the show and President of Random Swimwear. You're welcome. According to the rules, when a fact-based song is called into question, physical proof must be presented here within 24 hours.
Danny: How are we supposed to do that?
Mr. Random: Well, actually, you can't.
Danny: Wait, what?!
Mr. Random: Oh, Daniel, the rules clearly state that the band, along with the presenters, are to be locked in a soundproof room for 24 hours or until evidence is provided, whichever comes first.
Max Modem: Wait a minute, why the presenters?
Mr. Random: I can't hear you 'cause you're supposed to be in a soundproof booth.
(Love Händel, Lindana and Max are led offstage.)
Lindana: Oh oh oh...
Mr. Random: Move along.
Lindana: Candace, you're in charge.
Mr. Random: Okay, sorry for the inconvenience, folks, but it looks like we're gonna have to move this category to the end of the show.
(curtain closes)
(Song: "Forever Summer" (instrumental))
(A card showing the Random Swimwear logo appears.)
Candace: Phineas, Ferb, we need to find Klimpaloon and bring him back within 24 hours!
Phineas: We're way ahead of you! Ferb's rounding up the gang!
(Cut to the wings as Slamm sees this.)
Slamm: Those darn kids! I'll stop at nothing to make sure they don't prove the existence of Klimpaloon! Nothing!
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz.)
Stagehand: You're on next, Mr. Mayor, after the pork-based world music act.
Doofenshmirtz: Now's my chance! (he sprays the inator, but Perry blocks the shot) No! Oh, Perry the Platypus!
(Perry slides into some random instruments and a Rastafarian-colored blanket. He gets up to reveal he is now a warthog wearing the dreadlocks wig and the Rastafarian cap and a tambourine on his beaver tail.)
Stagehand: Swine Flute, you're on! Where's your tambourine player?!
Flautist: No show, man.
Doofenshmirtz: Ha ha! Look at you, Perry the Rasta-Warthogapus! (laughs, but Perry kicks him backwards)
Flautist: (to Perry) Kid, you've got the goods.
Announcer: And now, here's Swine Flute!
(The band and Perry go onstage. Perry jingles the tambourine on his tail.)
Flautist: More tambourine, man!
(Cut to the Himalayas where Phineas and the gang are riding yaks.)
Buford: Isn't anyone gonna talk about how we got here so fast?
Phineas: Sorry, Buford. We don't have the time for that. Ferb?
Ferb: Two words: "Travel montage."
Buford: I got two words for you: "Cli. Ché."
(Ferb opens up the book he and Phineas were reading earlier in the episode. The page reads: "Once I arrived in the Himalayas to search for the Klimpaloon, the Old Timey bathing suit, etc, etc... The start of my journey began at Mount Crest...")
Map Montage: At Mount Crest, Phineas and the gang and the yaks ski downhill.
Baljeet and Phineas: (whooping)
Candace: (laughs)
Isabella: Woohoo!
Buford: Oh yeah!
Yaks: (no comment)
Map Montage: Phineas and the gang Chute the Chutes. They arrive at a tunnel. A mysterious figure appears behind them.
(Cut to outside the tunnel.)
Buford: Anyone else get the feelin' we're bein' followed?
Baljeet: No, not a bit.
Isabella: Paranoid.
Candace: Okay, Ferb, where to next? (Ferb turns the page to reveal it's blank.) That's it?
Phineas: We lost the auction for volume two.
Ferb: We got sniped.
Buford: What about that cave up there with the weird Klimpaloon-shaped totem?
Baljeet: If Buford is now the brains of this operation, my life has lost all meaning!
Buford: Watch it! Long underwear makes the best wedgies!
Phineas: Candace, make the sound!
Candace: Nang nang nang nang nang!
Echo: Nang nang nang nang nang! Nang nang nang nang nang!
Klimpaloon: Nang nang nang nang nang nang nang nang!
All: (gasp)
Phineas: It's him!
Isabella: Klimpaloon! Yay! We found him!
Baljeet: Way to go!
Buford: Wish I could un-see that!
(The gang gets trapped in a net. Pan left to reveal the shadowy figure from earlier. He nabs Klimpaloon.)
Mr. Random: Got 'im!
All: Mr. Random!
Mr. Random: This unforeseen plot twist...brought to you by Random Swimwear.
(Song: "Forever Summer" (instrumental))
Buford: (appearing over the Random Swimwear card) Wow! I totally thought that shadowy figure was gonna be Slamm Hammer!

Part 2
(opens up on The Tristies)
Roger: (offscreen) Welcome back to the Tristies!
(Cut to the soundproof booth where Love Händel, Max and Lindana are waiting.)
Roger: Our next category...
Max Modem: And then, the hobo gave it back to me, quixotically. And that was the day before we met! So the next day at breakfast, I ordered poached eggs with salmon. But I didn't have poached eggs with salmon! Ha ha!
Danny: I wonder how the boys are doin'.
(Cut to Phineas and the gang trapped in a cave by Mr. Random.)
Candace: Get us down from here!
Mr. Random: Uh, that really didn't align with my plans, sooooooooo....nnnnnot gonna happen.
Candace: Look, if you're going to destroy my chance at stardom, I think I deserve an explanation.
Mr. Random: All right. I, I do like the sound of my own voice.  So, for years now, I've wanted to find the elusive Klimpaloon. And finally, after countless hours web surfing, I found Shackleberg's journal at an online auction site only to lose the first volume to you two! I did manage to get his second journal, but it only contains the last page of the map, the map that you have in Volume One. So I concocted a long, convoluted plan to get you to lead me right to him. Huh? Hmm. Yeah.
Phineas: But why?
Mr. Random: You see, sales have gone flat. You can only reinvent the bikini and board shorts so many times. But if I could convince the world to start wearing old-timey bathing suits again, that's revolutionary! But to do that, I was gonna need a gimmick.
(Mr. Random unzips the garment bag to reveal Klimpaloon trapped.)
Klimpaloon: Nang nang nang nang nang... (etc.)
All: (gasp)
Mr. Random: What a combo! He's self-propelled, he's got a weird disturbing face on his chest and he makes unintelligible noises. Seriously, just th-the whole package is irresistible! And he's all mine! He's all mine! (zips the garment bag back up)
Phineas: You can't own him!
Isabella: He's a living thing!
Buford: He belongs to the ages!
Mr. Random: Well, the ages should have kept their receipt, because he belongs to me now. And once I unravel his secrets, I'll make a fortune. Well, a second fortune. (A helicopter is heard in the distance.)  Ah, there's my ride! (flees) Brought to you by Random Swimwear!
Phineas: We can't let him unravel Klimpaloon's secrets!
Isabella: Unravel? (climbs up the net) I've got this! (she frees them out of the net) Knot Untying Patch, check!
Phineas: Come on! (the gang runs out of the cave) We've gotta save him!
Baljeet: But how? Mr. Random is already miles away. We have no idea where he is going and no way to get there except on foot!
Buford: Wow! What is with all the negativity?
Candace: Enough already! Time is running out and I am not going to blow my big break! Let's look around. Maybe we can find some clues.
Buford: See? Now that's constructive.
Isabella: Look! It's one of Klimpaloon's threads and it's trying to find its way back to him.
Candace: Follow that thread!
Baljeet: We cannot follow a thread.
Buford: Again with the negativity.
Phineas: Maybe we can use it as a homing device. Ferb?
(Ferb takes the thread and puts it into a compass.  The thread somehow becomes a finger pointing northwest.)
Phineas: Let's go!
(Cut to the gang going down the hill on snowboards.)
Baljeet: Is no one going to talk about where we got the snowboards?
Candace: There's no time for that now! Come on! Come on! Come on!
(The yaks follow behind them on a sled.)
(Cut to Doofensmirtz talking to a stagehand.)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, man, Roger's not on 'til the end of the show? Can't you get him back sooner?
Stagehand: No. Who do you think you are?
Doofenshmirtz: I'm his brother.
Stagehand: Nepotism will get you nowhere with me.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, maybe not yet, but wait 'til Roger's a warthog! (he leaves)
Stagehand: I do not know what that means.
(Cut back to the Himalayas. The thread is now pointing west. Ferb points in that direction.)
Phineas: That must be Mr. Random's fortress! Follow me!
(Cut to a rather science-fiction-y looking building. Phineas and the gang park their snowboards outside.)
Candace: Now what?
Phineas: Okay. (gets into the snow and maps out a diagram) I'll just create a diversion here so that Buford and Baljeet can flank them from the left. Ferb can then use his intimidating shout to scatter them so that Isabella can come in from behind. That should work unless they have reinforcements. What do you think, Baljeet? Can you give me a number crunch real quick?
Baljeet: Uh, gimme a sec. I am coming up with a 32.3% chance of success.
Phineas: Well, we've seen worse.
Buford: Alright, guys, let's do this! BUFORD VAN STOOOOOOOOOOOOOOMMMMMMMM!!!!!!
Phineas: He just ran in!
Candace: (going after him) Let's go! Let's go! Let's go!
Isabella: (also going after him) Dangit, Buford!
Phineas: (also going after him, angrily) Stick to the plan, man! Stick to the plan!
(Cut to inside where they immediately get captured.)
Baljeet: What the?!
Buford: What? I used gamer strategy.
(Cut to backstage. Doofenshmirtz is seen putting the inator into the podium.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, now I just have to set the spritzer, and the timer, and whoomp!, there he is! My brother, the warthog, mayor no more! (maniacal laughter)  Yeah. (sighs) Y'know, it's not the same without Perry the Platypus. I can't believe he ditched me. One lousy award and he goes all diva! Pfft!
(Cutaway to the press room where Swine Flute with Perry the Rasta-Warthogapus are seen with their awards.)
(Cut back to Mr. Random's lair. The captured gang pass by some deformed Klimpaloon clones.)
Candace: What the heck is all this?
Isabella: That's just...so wrong. They're...they're just horrible!
Mr. Random: You'll have to excuse me if this device seems incredibly threatening. It's only because...it is incredibly threatening!
All: (gasp)
Phineas: Klimpaloon!
Klimpaloon: (sadly) Nang...nang...nang... (etc.)
Mr. Random: As you clearly saw, my previous attempts to create the future of swimwear without Klimpaloon just were not working!
Phineas: (angrily) You fiend!
(Isabella smiles warmly when she realizes Phineas is caressing her.)
Mr. Random: Look, I'm givin' Old-Timey here a new twist! Flashback to fashion forward! It's a little high-concept, but take a look!
(The machinery raises to reveal some gentlemen in parkas. They unzip their parkas revealing them to be in matching old-timey bathing suits.)
(Song: "Flashing Back To Fashion Forward")
Mr. Random: ♪ We're flashing back to fashion forward ♪
♪ Yes, the old is the new new ♪
♪ One size fits all with just a little stretching ♪
♪ Be you six foot four or five foot two ♪
♪ Why rely on inspiration ♪
♪ When the old stuff's tried and true ♪
♪ We just revamped a tired idea ♪
♪ And made a new old-timey swimsuit for you ♪
Pretty catchy, doncha think?
Buford: If by "catchy", you mean "sucks the life outta the room and makes me wanna puke"...then yeah.
Mr. Random: Anyhoo, now that I have the original, I can figure out what makes him tick. Which brings us back, obviously, to the incredibly threatening machine. So, it's time to extract Klimpaloon's life force, and, uh, then, of course, infuse it into my latest swimwear line.
Phineas: We have to do something!
Ferb: How about this? (pulls the plug)
(After Ferb pulls the plug, we get a By The Lights of Their Eyes shot of the entire scene, not too dissimilar from the entirety of "Blackout!".)
Mr. Random: Aw, come on! Did we blow the breaker again, Fred? Fred? Frederick, is that— (Crashes into something) That stings.
Phineas: C'mon, guys! Now's our chance to free Klimpaloon and—
Buford: BUFORD VAN STOOOOOOOOOOOOOOMMMMMMMM!!!!!!
Baljeet: Oh, no, not again!
(Crash!)
Buford: So I did it again. (At least he got chicken!)
Candace: So what do we do?
Phineas: Save Klimpaloon, of course!
Klimpaloon: Nang nang nang... (etc.)
Phineas: There he is! Follow his voice!
Buford: Got 'im!
Baljeet: Ow! That is me!
Buford: Whoops. My bad. That wedgie was unintentional.
Candace: I got him! (the lights turn back on) Let's go!
(They flee the scene.)
Mr. Random: Guards, don't let him escape!
(Cut back to the gang fleeing.)
Klimpaloon: Nang nang nang nang... (etc.)
Baljeet: Oh, they are too fast! We are never gonna make it!
Candace: Okay, we've gotta split up. Ferb, hide Klimpaloon under your jacket to keep him quiet and I'll lure the guards the other way with my "Nang nang nang"! Just get him to the awards show!
Phineas: But, Candace, you'll miss your big chance to—
Candace: Saving Klimpaloon is more important! Now go! (they split up) Nang nang nang nang nang nang... (etc.)
Mr. Random: Alright, hold on. (stops his dancers as he hears Candace nanging) That way! Follow that vintage swimwear!
(Cut to the rest of the gang running out the door.)
Buford: Good thing they left the door open!
(Cut back to Candace still nanging. She goes out the service entrance. She runs out and snowboards away. Cut back to Mr. Random and the dancers. Mr. Random runs out but the dancers stay behind.)
Dancers: Ooh! Cold, cold, cold, cold, etc.
Mr. Random: Great. Now I'm reduced to yak transport.
(Cut back to soundproof booth.)
Stagehand: (to a security guard) Got it boss, it's go time!
(The security guard nods and opens the door.)
Max Modem: ...and that's how we met.
Stagehand: Okay, folks, on stage in five!
Max Modem: Righty-ho!
Sherman: Wow, what a great story.
(Everyone goes out, except Bobbi, who is sleeping.)
Danny: (offscreen) Bobbi, come on!
Bobbi: Huh? What? Wait up, guys!
(Cut to Roger back at the podium.)
Roger: And now, to present our final award for the evening, which, of course, was supposed to be our first award, but you remember that whole "does Klimpaloon exist" hullabaloo... Anyway, welcome again, Lindana and Max Modem.
(Song: "I'm Lindana and I Wanna Have Fun"/"Alien Heart" (instrumental))
(applause)
Lindana: Unfortunately, due to lack of evidence, it appears that Love Händel has been disqualified. So, without further ado, the winner of the award for Best Fact-Based Song is—
Phineas: Wait! We have the evidence!
Lindana: I'm sorry, kids. The journal isn't good enough. You need actual, physical proof.
Phineas: But we do have physical proof! Ferb?
(Ferb opens his jacket to reveal Klimpaloon under it.)
Klimpaloon: Nang nang nang nang... (etc.)
(applause, cut to the wings)
Drummer: I thought you said you'd stop at nothing to keep them from finding Klimpaloon.
Slamm: That's right. I did nothing and stopped.
(Cut back to onstage.)
Max Modem: How did you find him?
Lindana: And why are you all in parkas?
Candace: There's no time for that now! Mr. Random is a ruthless venture capitalist who captured all of us in his Himalayan fortress where he performed inhuman experiments on bathing suits and tried to destroy Klimpaloon in pursuit of a revolutionary swimsuit sales gimmick.
Lindana: (thinking Candace is in busting mode again) Oh, Candace, not here. Not now.
Phineas: No, Mom, really! Candace is telling the truth!
Mr. Random: Phuh! What an active imagination these kids have. We don't really have time for that now, we need to present an award.
Phineas and the gang: (gasp)
Mr. Random: No, no, let's get the award done. Tick tick tick. Time's a-wastin'. Shall we?
Max Modem: Well, obviously, Klimpaloon is real. So it gives me great pleasure to present the award for Best Fact-Based Song to...
(They open the envelope.)
Lindana: Love Händel for "The Ballad of Klimpaloon"! (applause)
Danny: Thank you! Thank you so much! And a big thank you to all the kids who brought Klimpaloon here! (applause) Come on, Candace! Take your place!
(Song: "The Ballad of Klimpaloon")
Love Händel: ♪ Oh, oh, oh ♪
♪ He stands in winter, he's striped and frozen ♪
♪ He is completely out of style ♪
♪ He got no hands, he got no feet ♪
♪ All mouth and teeth, but he don't smile ♪
♪ He's made out of wool, he's itchy to wear ♪
♪ He's got broad stripes and savoir-faire ♪
♪ He's out of place almost everywhere ♪
♪ Since 1883 ♪
♪ He's a costume out of time ♪
♪ Both ridiculous and sublime ♪
♪ Seems innocuous, but I'm ♪
♪ Afraid he's scarin' me ♪
♪ He's the magical old-timey bathing suit ♪
♪ That lives in the Himalayas ♪
♪ They call him Klimpaloon (Klimpaloon) ♪
♪ If you're between Tibet and Nepal ♪
♪ And you're quiet, you can hear the call ♪
♪ Of Klimpaloon: (Klimpaloon) ♪
Klimpaloon and Candace: ♪ Nang-nang-nang-nang-nang-nang-nang-nang-nang-nang! ♪
Love Händel: ♪ He stands in winter! ♪
(Klimpaloon begins to magically float over the audience and the audience oohs in amazement.)
Lindana: Wow, he really is magical!
Phineas: Actually, he's being pulled up by a cable. Thanks, Miguel!
(They all leave. Cut to the wings.)
Roger: Let's hear it for Love Händel!
Mr. Random: (menacingly) Look at them. Enjoying their triumph. "Ooh, we're so happy! We saved Klimpaloon! Let's all sing!" Well, enjoy it now, because I will get my hands on Klimpaloon! I'll unravel his secret, even if I have to rip him apart, stitch by stitch and then, the moronic people of the world will beat a path to my door, and beg for my cheap Klimpaloon knockoff line, 'cause consumers are just like lemmings, brainless little animals that I can manipulate right off the fiscal cliff like the puppet master that I am! (maniacal laughter, then realizes the mic was picking him up. He walks onstage.) Was that thing on?
Audience:  Yes, yes it was.
Mr. Random: My career's over, isn't it?
Audience: Yes. Yes it is.
(The timer goes off and he is turned into a warthog.)
Mr. Random: (walks off) And I'm a warthog.
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz back in his labcoat offstage.)
Doofenshmirtz: Curse you, Perry the...I guess he doesn't really get credit for this one. He was just playing tambourine with Swine Flute. It's not really.... (sighs) Well....Sort of anticlimactic for me.
(Cut to the gang walking out)
Buford: So, where's Klimpy? Don't tell me he ditched us for one of those swanky afterparties.
Phineas: I guess he's on his way back to the Himalayas.




Klimpaloon: (waving from a Random Swimwear limo) Nang nang nangnang nang nang nang...


Phineas: See you later!Be cool!


Isabella: See ya!


Buford: See you, Klimpy!


Baljeet: Safe travels!


(During this, Perry transforms back into a platypus and rejoins them.)
Buford: I don't want him to go. I want him to stay with us.
Ferb: Klimpaloon doesn't belong to us. He belongs to the ages.
Buford: I said that back in the Himalayas! Does no one listen to me?!
Baljeet: Uh, how are we getting home?

End Credits
Mr. Random: ♪ We're flashing back to fashion forward ♪
♪ Yes, the old is the new new ♪
♪ One size fits all with just a little stretching ♪
♪ Be you six foot four or five foot two ♪
♪ Why rely on inspiration ♪
♪ When the old stuff's tried and true ♪
♪ We just revamped a tired idea ♪
♪ And made a new old-timey swimsuit for you ♪
Pretty catchy, doncha think?



(Opens up showing the Danville Senior Lodge.)
Isabella: (from inside) Thanks for showing me the old scrapbooks, Nana. (cut to her with Nana and other senior citizens.) I love hearing about the old days. Tell me again about string art. And what was it like to get up and change the channel on the TV?
Nana's Friend: Oh, that's so cute, honey. Look at how old-fashioned I still am. I'm writing a letter. By hand.
Isabella: Why don't you just text or call them?
Nana Shapiro: Hoo-hoo-hoo! You kids know nothing of the lost art of letter writing. Back when we were young, we expressed our truest feelings in letters.
Nana's Friend: Yes. You can tell someone how much they meant to you without worrying about getting interrupted. Or losing your nerve.
Nana Shapiro: Or hiccuping. That was my problem. When I was young, I had a crush on a certain boy, and I wrote a letter telling him how I truly felt. That boy ended up being your grandfather.
Isabella: Wow. I've been wanting to tell someone how I feel for a long time, now.
Nana's Friend: Really? I've got an extra pen and paper!
Nana Shapiro: Now take your time, deeply state your feelings, and express your... (Isabella hands her the paper)
Isabella: I've been scripting this thing out in my head for years.
(Cut to the office where letters get sent)
Nana Shapiro: Perfect time, and the postman's here.
Isabella: Add this to your bag, my good sir. (hands over the letter about her true feelings about Phineas) So Nana, when Grandpa got your letter, did he come running to you and sweep you into his arms?
Nana Shapiro: What? Oh no. I never mailed it. I'm not brave like you. I mean, he would've laughed at me or shown the letter to his friends. Can you imagine the embarrassment?
Isabella: (gets nervous) Oh boy!
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb's garage)
Linda: Hon, why do you have all these boxes of take out food thingys?
Lawrence: It's such a waste to get rid of them. See? Look. Chopsticks and Ponzu sauce. That's Japanese but-but look, there's also a Chinese fortune cookie, that's what's known as fusion.
Linda: Okay. I'm hungry.
Lawrence: Oh. Let's go get some food. Would you kids like to come along?
Phineas: No thanks, dad. We had fusion for breakfast.
Lawrence: All right, then. I'll clear all these drawers and boxes out later, darling. See you, boys!
Phineas: Hey, Ferb! Let's do dad a favor and clear these drawers and boxes out for him! Oh, look at this! It's like a spoon and a fork together! What would you even call that?
Ferb: In the UK, they call that a "foon".
Buford: They do not!
Phineas: It's a perfect fusion of aesthetics and utility. It's like a little work of art. Ferb, I...
Candace: What? What are you doing?
Phineas: Helping dad by clearing out this stuff.
Candace: You're doing a chore? No way are you getting all the parent points. I've got chores to do, too. Carry on.
Baljeet: You know, the drawer in our kitchen is full of honey and catsup.
Buford: Yeah, and ours has red pepper flakes and little tubs of grated cheese.
Phineas: Well, go home and grab it, guys! We're gonna make some art! Hey, where's Perry?
(Cut to Perry)
♪ Doo-bee doo-bee doo-bah ♪
♪ Doo-bee doo-bee doo... ♪
(Perry chatters three times)
Major Monogram: Agent P, it seems that Doofenshmirtz is into astrology now, and that makes him very dangerous to us. I know what you're thinking. I was like you. I always thought horoscopes were a bunch of hooey. But then, I read my own horoscope. I'm a Sagittarius. It said, "It's a bad to get a haircut". How spooky is that? I had my haircut yesterday. Today would be a bad day to get a haircut. How do they know that stuff? If Doof figured out the astrological science of our agents, he could predict our every move!
Carl: Excuse me, sir. I believe horoscopes are meant for entertainment rather to be taken as fact.
Major Monogram: Of course, you think that, Carl. You're a Capricorn. You know what to do, Agent P.
(Perry gets sprung out of his seat)
(Cut to Isabella)
Isabella: (in her head) Oh, come on, Isabella. What's so bad about writing a letter and expressing my feelings? Feelings are natural. Phineas is natural. We are both natural beings in the world. What feelings? (back to normal) Aw. (in her head) Did I really refer to him as "my little crumb cake"? Who does that? (back to normal) Come in, Fireside Girls!
Holly: Go ahead, chief!
Isabella: I just mailed a letter stating my true feelings to Phineas and we need to stop him before he reads it! This mission is top priority! I call it "Operation Crumb Cake"!
Ginger: Crumb Cake? Is that what you called him?
(all laugh)
Isabella: Oh boy, it's worse than I thought.
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
Baljeet: Wow. Artsy.
Phineas: Yeah. We're really getting into it. Who knew that making an art piece out of old take out stuff would be so fun?
Baljeet: It is almost like Tadashi Kawamata's massive chair sculpture in Abu Dhabi.
Ferb: Or the Sub Lyric Pile Killabuster with Onion on Marble in Salzburg, Austria.
Baljeet: Really?
Phineas: Actually, I think he just made that one up.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry walks in)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, hello, Perry the Platypus. Could you be a sport and shut the door? It gets really drafty in here. Give it a good slam. Sometimes it sticks.
(Perry falls for Doofenshmirtz's trap)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha ha! Betcha never dreamt you'd get caught in a dream catcher. Actually, Norm made that this morning. Who knew he was so crafty? Anyway, my astrologer believes that when Mercury is in retrograde, anything can go wrong and usually does. And, you know, she's always right, she has dark hair and bangs, and you know, as it turns out, Mercury has been in retrograde all summer. No wonder my evil schemes keep failing! And that is why I invented the Unretrograde-inator! You know, to reverse my bad luck. And I know that Unretrograde is sort of a double negative. It sounds like I'm making Mercury go forwards but I'm actually sending it backwards from going backwards which happens to look forward but it isn't. You know what? Basically, it's a Reverse-inator but... Unretrograde-inator! It sounded more astrology-y. Look. You know, I'll just show you how it works. Oh Norm! Could you come over here for a moment?
Norm: I'm almost finished cleaning up your mid-morning piñata, sir.
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah yeah. Qué bueno, Norm. Now, just stand right there.
Norm: Oki-dokie. (gets zapped by the -inator) Oh my! I have a sudden urge to dump your piñata pieces back on the floor.
Doofenshmirtz: It works!
Norm: Now, I'm going to push the giblets back into the chicken.
(Cut to a street as the mail truck drives past. Isabella, now wearing her Fireside Girl uniform, peeks out from behind a bush, puts on a bike helmet and rides off on her skateboard.)
(Song: "I Need My Letter Back")
Isabella: (singing off-screen) ♪ Postmaster general, please help me out, ♪
♪ I wrote a boy a letter now I'm filled with doubt. ♪
♪ It was a sentimental notion ♪
♪ To spell out my emotion that way ♪
♪ Before I have a heart attack ♪
♪ I need my letter back ♪
♪ I need a retraction, a full-scale rejection, ♪
♪ At least if I could edit it and soften the tone ♪
♪ Please just leave it, I have to retrieve it, ♪
♪ Don't say my opportunity has already flown ♪
Backup singers: ♪ Already flown! ♪
♪ Oh, why did I ever sign my name? ♪
♪ I don't want to be forever stamped in shame ♪
♪ I'd have to move to Belgium ♪
♪ And wear a really bad toupee ♪
♪ So before I have a heart attack, ♪
Backup singers: ♪ She needs her letter back! ♪
♪ It could be in this very stack ♪
Backup singers: ♪ She needs her letter back! ♪
♪ It's hard to overstate this fact: ♪
♪ I need my letter back! ♪
Isabella: We'll never catch them this way! But we will get that letter back! No matter how nicely or politely we have to ask! We'll cut them off at Phineas's house. Let's go!
(Cut to Norm walking backwards.)
Norm: Now I'm going to put food waste back on the dishes.
Doofenshmirtz: (reading the paper) Yes, yes, thank you, Norm. (to Perry) Does this make sense to you? Listen. "Someone is secretly speaking on your behalf."
Norm: (offscreen) Time to unmake the coffee.
Doofenshmirtz: It sounds positive for me, and I like that, but who is speaking nicely of me? Wait, was it you, Perry the Platypus?
Norm: Next, I'll unmake my dream-catcher.
(He takes the dream-catcher off of Perry.)
Doofenshmirtz: No, no, don't do that! (Perry punches Doofenshmirtz.) You never let me finish my sentences.
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house. Isabella and the Fireside Girls run up to the mailbox.)
Isabella: We're in luck! Looks like we're here before the mail's come! Okay, girls! Let's seal off this area! Holly, you go take up a scanning position one half-click to the north! Ginger, you got the south! The rest of you, fan out! We've got to intercept that letter! I'm going in back to keep Phineas distracted. Any questions?
Gretchen: Yeah. How long has this mailbox been here?
Isabella: Oy. (runs off)
(Cut to Norm.)
Norm: Now to unbrush my teeth. What am I doing?! Sir, the effect of your ray has worn off.
Doofenshmirtz: (sarcastically) I'm so happy for you. Listen, could you get this platypus off me?
(Perry flips right off Doofenshmirtz.)
Norm: Wow, is he hard to catch!
Doofenshmirtz: You're just noticing this, huh? Go get 'im!
(Cut to the fence. Isabella walks in.)
Isabella: Hey. (chuckles nervously) So, er, whatcha doin'? (chuckles again)
Phineas: What do you think? The world's largest art piece made entirely of takeout food packets and utensils.
Isabella: Oh, wow! Huh-huh. Artsy!
Phineas: Right? Can I show you around?
Isabella: Sure.
Phineas: Here, Baljeet has thoughtfully recreated Gainsborough's The Blue Boy completely in red pepper flakes.
Baljeet: (revealing his eyes are red, teary and bloodshot) I wish I would have thoughtfully recreated an eyewash station. Sheesh!
Phineas: Watch your step up the chopstick ladder. From here, you can see the whole neighborhood.
(Isabella notices the mailwoman coming.)
Isabella: Phineas, uh...let's switch places. The light catches the foon so beautifully from this angle.
Ferb: (wolf whistles)
(Cut to Ferb holding a cartoony sign with an envelope on it.)
Phineas: Awesome! The mail's here! Wonder if that comic book I ordered arrived. (climbs down)
Isbaella: No no! Wait!
(Cut to the sliding door as Candace walks out.)
Candace: Hey, this doesn't look like a chore to me! It looks like a bust!

(Cut to Holly hiding behind a tree watching the postwoman walk by.)
Holly: (on walkie-talkie) The stamp is on the envelope.
(Cut to the postwoman approaching the mailbox. Milly, Ginger and Katie walk up to her.)
Ginger: Excuse me, but do you have a letter in your bag addressed to Danville resident Phineas Flynn?
Postwoman: (searches in her bag) Hmm, looks like I do.
Ginger: (sternly) We demand that you hand it over to us immediately! (politely) Please?
Postwoman: I'm sorry, it is unlawful for a postal carrier to deliver any envelope or parcel into the hands of anyone except the intended recipient as indicated in the address column of said envelope or parcel.
Holly: What about afterwards? Can we jump him and wrestle it out of his hands?
Postwoman: Honey, what you do with your afternoon is none of my business.
Phineas: (offscreen) Hey, Mrs. Ferguson! (walks up to the postwoman with Ferb) Did my comic book arrive today?
Postwoman: No. Just this letter. (gives it to him)
Isabella: (gasps)
Phineas: Oh, look! It's from you, Isabella!
Isabella: (in her head) Well, Isabella, here it is. He's finally going to know how you really feel. There's no turning back now.
(Cut to Perry climbing on the inator.)
Norm: Come back here! Now I've got-- (Perry spins the inator and it hits Norm.) --rhythm? (Norm falls forward and activates the inator.)
(Cut back to Isabella.)
Isabella: (in her head) At least you told the truth and you spoke from your heart, (smiles) I can accept this.

Phineas: (offscreen) "Dear Phineas..." (cut to Phineas reading) Aw, and there's a little heart.
(Phineas and the postwoman get zapped by the inator. He gives the letter back to her and they walk backwards.)
(Song: "gnoS ykroW ykriuQ")
(While going backwards, Phineas unmakes the giant artwork.)
(Cut back to D.E.I.)
Norm: Oh, no, I just realized I may have put the giblets in the hamster!
(Perry pushes the self-destruct button. To his surprise nothing happens. He ponders for a moment and tries pressing again repeatedly.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha! Gotcha! See, I began to think, "If only I had a nickel for every time you pushed my inator's self-destruct button", and then it hit me. You wouldn't have a nickel either because you don't have any pockets! Wait, wait, wait, what are you-?! (Perry takes off his fedora revealing a nickel on his head.) Oh, I forgot about your hat. (Perry puts the nickel in the slot.) Curse you, Perry the Pla--
(KABOOM!)
Doofenshmirtz: See?! You never let me finish my sentences!
(Cut to Candace's failed bust.)
Candace: Awww! Of course.
Phineas: Why did I do that?
Candace: (to her mother) There was like a whole bunch of stuff the boys were clearing out!
Linda: Speaking of "stuff", what's up with your room?
Candace: Yep. (walks into the house) I'm on it.
Isabella: Well, I guess we'll never know what was in that letter.
Ferb: (smiling) No, I guess not. And neither will your "little crumb cake."
Isabella: Milly!!
Milly: (whistles innocently)

End Credits
(standalone broadcasts only)
(Song: "I Need My Letter Back")



Phineas: An almost perfect day to build another one of our inventions.
Buford: Hey! Dinner bell! Where do you want this crate of hoojimagawas?
Phineas: Right there is good, Buford.
Baljeet: How about these helicopter blades?
Phineas: Just lean 'em up against the tree for now.
Baljeet: Ten-four, good buddy.
Buford: Why do you sound like you're in a 1970s road comedy?
Baljeet: There was a cable marathon on last night.
Buford: Oh, I missed it.
Isabella: Heads up. More random construction equipment for an as-yet-unidentified project comin' in!
Perry: (chatters)
(Perry's entrances are blocked, leaving him with the long stairs that he's walking down)
(Cut to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: This rate, I'll be late for my creative writing class. Agent P! No need to walk all the way down here! I'll just give you your mission on the staircase! Doofenshmirtz has been experimenting with image technology! It's very suspicious! We need you to go check it out! Good luck, Agent P! Idea for TV spinoff. Platypus in a staircase.
(Cut to Candace's room)
Candace: Stace, the thing with boys is I just don't get them. You think they're saying one thing, but then you don't know if they really mean something else. They're like those Egyptian drawings that no one understands.
Stacy: You mean like hieroglyphics? Those were deciphered in the early 1800s after they found the Rosetta Stone.
Candace: Fine. They're like something else no one understands. Like, how you know that?
Stacy: (mumbles) I 'unno.
Candace: Okay. Take the conversation I just had with Jeremy. I suggested we go to the movies later and he said "cool". And what does that mean? I mean, did he mean like "Cool, I totally want to hang out with you" or "Cool, I really wanna see that movie" or "cool" like "I think you're being cold and distant"?
Stacy: Not that one.

♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Over here, Perry the Platypus.
(cage falls down)
Doofenshmirtz: So, you fell for the old hat rack disguised as your nemesis" ploy, eh? Well anyway, that was a very efficient use of my time. I demonstrated my latest inator, and trapped you all in one. Trap Perry the Platypus. Check. Demonstrate inator. Check. And now, that just leaves backstory, light lunch, take over the Tri-State Area, and schedule painters. Only seventy-five percent of my list left. I am on fire today! All right, so let's get down to business. Ever since I switched pizza places, you remember that whole pizza day debacle, right? Okay. Well anyway, my orders now are all showing up cold. Nothing I can do to change that, because, you know, I'm a lousy tipper, so I invented this. The impersonator-inator! An inator so nice, I had to name it twice. Rather than move or shell out extra cash, I can use this device to create a holographic field around myself, impersonate the pizza delivery boy, and pick up my own pizza. It'll still be warm, but then I said Heinz, Heinz, you're-you're thinking too small. Why not think of pizza boy's boss, but then I said Heinz, Heinz, and I said what? I'm right here. Stop saying my name. And then I said why be the pizza boy's boss when you can be the pizza franchise owner? Uh-oh.
Electronic Voice: Database image transfer.
(inator fires)
Doofenshmirtz: Whoops. One pizza delivery boy, comin' up! I don't know who that was for. It was such a good line. It would've been a shame to hold it back. It's uh, oh hush.
(Cut back to Candace's room)
Candace: Seriously Stacy, boys are a mystery. I mean, what do they talk about when they're not around? Do you think they talk about us?
Stacy: I got no clue.
Candace: (sighs) I guess I'll never know the real deal as long as I'm not a boy. (gets turned into Gary Frank) Stacy, there's a pizza delivery boy in my room!
Stacy: Is that code for something?
Candace: Get back! Huh? There's no one there. But he's in the mirror. But, but, (gasps) Oh no. No no no no no no no. This cannot be happening. (gasps) Ah ha! Oh! Oh! Stacy, Phineas and Ferb have turned me into a holographic image of a pizza boy!
Stacy: Cool. Can I have a veggie special with non-dairy cheese?
Candace: (voiceover) Stacy!
Stacy: Hey, too bad Jeremy didn't order a pizza. Then, you can hang out with him and find out what guys talk about.
Candace: Brilliant! (gasps; laughs)
Stacy: Just kidding, Candace. Candace! Oh boy, I gotta work on my delivery. It's way too deadpan.
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
Phineas: Knowing what we're gonna do today. Check. Wondering where Perry is. Check. We're on fire today!
(Candace laughing nervously)
Isabella: Did you order a pizza?
Phineas: Nope.
Baljeet: Maybe, he delivered a pizza before you even thought about ordering it.
Phineas: Ferb, make a note for later. Time travel pizzeria.
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
Doofenshmirtz: And then I thought, why be a brigadier general when I can be a major general? I mean, why not? Right? I'm a modern guy. And then I thought, maybe I'm still shooting too low. Why be a major general when I can be a lieutenant general? And then I thought, why-- (Perry slaps him) Ow! What, do you have a blowtorch under your tail or something? (Perry slaps him again) Ow!
(Cut to Danville Park)
Jeremy: 37! 42! 74! Hike! Hike!
Coltrane: Hey hey! I'm open! I'm open!
Candace: (as Gary Frank) Pizza delivery.
Jeremy: That didn't count! Pizza interference.
Candace: (as Gary Frank) Pizza for Jeremy Johnson.
Jeremy: Uh, sorry dude. But we didn't order any pizza.
Candace: (as Gary Frank) You didn't. But your girlfriend did. That's some girlfriend you've got there. I see you're the luckiest man alive to have a girlfriend like that.
Jeremy: Wait a minute. You look familiar. Do I know you?
Candace: (as Gary Frank) No.
Jeremy: You really look familiar. Aren't you?--
Candace: (as Gary Frank) Nope. Just an average hamburger-eating football playin', punchin', gamin' boy. (spits) Boy spit. That's why I did that.
Jeremy: Wait. You're Gary Frank! You were the most popular senior two years in a row! Dude. You gotta join us for a pizza break. It'll be fun to catch up and talk.
Candace: (as Gary Frank) Talk. Yeah. Talk.
(Cut to the benches)
(everyone is eating pizza)
(Coltrane belches)
All: (laughing)
Candace: (as Gary Frank) (laughs) That was funny. Belching. (laughs) It's so, uh... (laughs) Male (laughs) Right, bros? But yeah, maybe we should talk about something like, I don't know, does anyone have any deep thoughts they'd like to share?
Coltrane: Nope.
Jeremy and Coltrane's friend: What?
Jeremy: Well, I think... this pizza's really good.
Candace: (as Gary Frank) Oh, I'm so glad. Yeah, I figured you guys would like the supreme meat lover's choice. Though, I wasn't sure about the prosciutto. Sometimes, it could be rather tough. And when it gets in between your teeth, it could be really embarrassing like, (pauses) um... yeah, and that's how I feel about it.
Jeremy and Coltrane's friend: What?
Coltrane: I have a feeling.
Candace: (as Gary Frank) Great. Let's hear it.
Coltrane: I have a feeling if Jeremy doesn't wash that shirt soon, it's gonna be reported as a health hazard.
Jeremy and Coltrane's friend: (laughs)
Jeremy: Oh yeah. Well your face is a health hazard.
Coltrane: Your breath is a health hazard.
(everyone except Candace laughs)
Candace: (talking like herself) I have really been underestimating Stacy's conversational skills.
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
(Doofenshmirtz's Impersonator-inator retrieves new people for impersonation)
(Doofenshmirtz gets shot with his -inator)
Doofenshmirtz: (looking like Teddy Roosevelt) Okay. I can tell by the way you're looking at me that I'm suddenly the twenty-sixth president of the United States, Teddy Roosevelt. Downside is: I'll be succeeded by William Taft. Blech! The upside, Perry the Platypus, is that the hero of San Juan Hill was a heck of a pugilist. Put up your dukes. Come on.
(Perry gets turned into a gorilla)
Doofenshmirtz: (looking like Teddy Roosevelt) Mm, guess the animal setting wasn't such a hot (Perry the Platypus (currently impersonating a gorilla) punches Doofenshmirtz) Ow! Wait. How did you punch me? The hologram was so much taller than you. (Perry picks him up) Ah! Ow! It defies logic.
(Cut to Danville Park)
(Song: "Watchin' and Waitin'" (instrumental))
Jeremy: Yeah! Well, my fantasy league is killin' it this year.
Candace: (sighs)
Jeremy: Thomas got me two touchdowns, twenty-three points last week, and 189 yards. I'm in first place in my keeper league.
Coltrane: You're lucky, because I drafted Kimball, but he's out for two more weeks.
Jeremy and Coltrane's friend: What?
Candace: (as Gary Frank) So, uh, what else do we talk about? Mm, let me think, uh... oh, I know. Anyone here have a girlfriend?
Jeremy and Coltrane's friend: What?
Coltrane: I do. Her name's Stacy. She's absolutely the best girl...
Candace: (as Gary Frank) Not you, I'm asking Jeremy.
Jeremy: Duh. Remember the whole "your girlfriend ordered the pizza" thing?
Candace: (as Gary Frank) Oh, right. Yeah. Your girlfriend ordered pizzas. (clears throat) Uh, so, yeah, what do you think of her?
Jeremy: She's cool.
Candace: (as Gary Frank) And what do you mean cool? Like cool how?
Jeremy: I just mean she's cool.
Candace: (as Gary Frank) So, cool like, you like her "cool"? Like she's totally cool to be around "cool"? Or cool like she's cold and distant?
Jeremy: Uh, those first two. Not that last one. She's cool. She's sweet.
Candace: (as Gary Frank) You mean sweet like thoughtful or sweet like so sugary or gonna be sick?
Jeremy: No. I just mean she's sweet. She's nice.
Candace: (as Gary Frank) Nice like she's nice or, what do you mean by that?
Jeremy: Just what I said. She's nice. She's cool.
Candace: (as Gary Frank) So, what you're telling me is that what you say is exactly what you mean? Like nothing more, nothing less, you say it, you mean it, that's it.
Jeremy: Well, yeah. What else would I mean?
Candace: (as Gary Frank) Nothing, I guess. 'Cause we're like dudes.
Jeremy and Coltrane's friend: What?
Candace: (as Gary Frank) Okay, so you know, um... I'm gonna go.
Jeremy: Great hangin' with you!
Candace: (as Gary Frank) Yeah. Enlightening.
Jeremy: Wow. He is not like he was in high school.
(Coltrane burps again)
(everyone laughs again)
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz and Perry)
(Perry looks like Director Dipthong. Doofenshmirtz looks like the Gunther Goat Cheese's goat. Doofenshmirtz gets turned into a pig.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, come on! (Perry gets turned into a football player) Oh, I get it. Pig skin. Oh great. My -inator has a sense of... (gets turned into a dinosaur while falling to ground) Velociraptor power attack!
(Perry gets turned into Lulu Jones)
(Song: "Leave the Busting to Us!")
♪ Bust 'em! Bust 'em! Bust 'em! ♪
(Perry punches Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, great! Where am I supposed to find a paleo-orthodontist?
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
Phineas: Okay, Ferb. Fire it up. (Ferb turns on the machine) Ah. Congratulations, guys. We're the first humans ever to taste blueberry air.
Buford: Eh, I'm more of a lingonberry kind of guy. (Candace returns to the backyard as Gary Frank) Hey, you're back. I'll take a large pie with andouille sausage and chocolate chips.
Candace: First of all: Ew. Why would you eat that? And second: I'm not a pizza boy.
Phineas: Oh my gosh. It's Candace. With what appears to be a holographic field projection mapped on to her.
Candace: Why are you surprised? Didn't you guys do this?
Phineas: Nope. We were just makin' blueberry air.
Candace: Why blueberry? Why not lingonberry?
Buford: Exactly. What's that all about?
Candace: Uh, well how can I get this off? Buford is like, the eighth person to order pizza from me. And that's not even how you order pizza.
Phineas: Well, we didn't do it. But we'll be glad to undo it. Side project, gang.
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz and Perry)
(Perry looks like Blanca Dishon while Doofenshmirtz looks like Buck Buckerson)
Doofenshmirtz: No! No! Not the -inator! I totally need that!
(Perry and Doofenshmirtz turns back into themselves.)
Doofenshmirtz: Who's this nincompoop? (realizes he called himself a nincompoop) Oh, right. CURSE YOU, PERRY THE PLATYPUS,...
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz (cont'd): ...and-and the football player, the gorilla, and Lulu Jones, and Blanca Dishon and Director Dipthong. Everybody! Curse you all!
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
Phineas: Okay. We have everything we need for a holographic field disrupter. We'll build it, and you'll be totally... (Candace changes back to herself) Back to normal!
Candace: Cool. Thanks guys. Bust you later.
Buford: I guess my pizza orders aren't goin' in. WON'T SOMEONE THINK OF THE BUFORD?!?!

End Credits
Candace: Hello?
Jeremy: Hey, Candace. I just wanted to thank you for sending over the pizzas. That was really cool.
Candace: Cool! You liked it?
Jeremy: It was awesome. So, we still on for the movies tonight?
(Song: "Cool Song")
Candace: ♪ Cool! ♪
Jeremy: ♪ Cool. ♪
Candace: ♪ Cool. ♪
Jeremy: ♪ Cool? ♪
Candace: ♪ Cool! ♪
Jeremy: ♪ Cool. ♪
Candace: ♪ Cool! ♪
Jeremy: ♪ Cool! ♪
Candace: ♪ Cool. ♪
Jeremy: ♪ Cool! C-c-c-cool! ♪
Candace: ♪ Cool! ♪
Jeremy: ♪ Cool. ♪
Candace: ♪ Cooool! ♪
Jeremy: ♪ Cool! ♪
Candace: ♪ Cool! ♪
Jeremy: ♪ Cool! ♪
Candace: Arctic.
Jeremy: What did you mean by that?
Candace: Exactly what I said.



Contents[show]
Act 1
(Opens on a space sky. Onscreen text: A couple summers ago in a galaxy far far away...)
(The Star Wars theme plays as the show's logo and title zoom away from the camera. The movie's opening crawl begins.)
Jim Cummings: Episode IVa: "May The Ferb Be With You". On the Desert planet of Tatooine lived two happy young moisture farmers...
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: Uh, uh, can -- can -- excuse me, can you do it faster?
Jim Cummings: What? What? (The crawl stops.) Faster?
Dan Povenmire: Yeah, and funnier, if possible.
Jim Cummings: Oh, faster? Okay. (The crawl reverses.) Um...all right, uh... (inhales)
(The crawl starts playing again.)
Jim Cummings: (faster, talking like the Tasmanian Devil) Episode IVa: "May The Ferb Be With You". On the Desert planet of Tatooine...
Dan and Swampy:  Uhm uh, yeah, yeah, no, no.
(The crawl stops again.)
Jim Cummings: (normal voice) What? What?
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: Forget the funnier.
Dan Povenmire: Yeah, just go faster.
(The crawl reverses again.)
Jim Cummings: All right...
(The crawl plays once more.)
Jim Cummings: Episode IVa: "May The Ferb Be With You". On the Desert planet of Tatooine lived two happy young moisture farmers, who had absolutely no plans of leaving or getting involved in any kind of intergalactic shenanigans. Unbeknownst to them the Galactic Empire had recently finished constructing its ultimate weapon, the DEATH STAR. Bum-bum-bum!
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: (laughs) Sounds creepy like that.
Dan Povenmire: That's good, I like it.
Jim Cummings: Thanks. Yeah, it was capitalized. (reading) Meanwhile, having learned the whereabouts of the Death Star's plans, the rebels send their best platypus agent to obtain them, in hopes of finding a weakness. And none of this is canon, so just relax.
(The crawl rolls up like a projector screen.)
(We see a ship fly in just like in the film. Pan up to reveal it has an office building attached to it.)
Caption: Empire Administration Offices.
Office Stormtrooper 1: TK-five-eight-two, I'm gonna need you to run these numbers again.
Office Stormtrooper 2: I took a third out of the budget already.
Office Stormtrooper 1: Orders from the top, there's nothing I can do.
(Perry the Rebelpus appears. He sneaks around the Imperial cubicles. He disables a shield. He pushes a button, and a disc labeled "Death Star Plans" appears. He takes it. An alarm is heard blaring. Perry hides the disc and escapes from the Stormtroopers.)
Stormtrooper 1: Stop right there!
(The Stormtroopers happen upon one of the office Stormtroopers looking at a scantily-clad Twi'lek on his computer.)
Office Stormtrooper 2: Oh, uh, uh, it's work-related.
Stormtrooper 2: There he is!
(A Stormtrooper fires his blaster and hits a flowerpot. Perry makes his way into the vents and into his platypus-shaped escape pod.)
Imperial Officer 1: Captain, the Rebel is escaping!
Imperial Captain: Go after him!
Office Stormtrooper 3: Whoa, what the heck?
Stormtrooper 3: I'm slipping! I'm slipping!
Office Stormtrooper 4: No no no no! Save save save!
(Cut to Perry's ship. He smiles as he pulls the lever engaging lightspeed. Cut to another ship. Perry's ship goes onto it. Cut to Princess Leia who appears behind a door and walks to the ship.)
Leia: We've received your transmissions. So you have the Death Star plans? (Perry gives it to her.) Agent P, you never cease to ama—
(The ship shakes.)
Captain Antilles: Your Highness, an Imperial Star Destroyer has tracked our position.
(The Imperial Star Destroyer fires at the ship.)
(Pan down to the planet of Tatooine. We see a herd of banthas walking across. A speeder goes by. Cut to the speeder revealing Phineas and Ferb.)
(Song: "Tatooine")
Phineas: ♪ You can look, but you're never gonna find a better place to be ♪
♪ Than this little slice of heaven tucked between the Jundland Wastes and the big Dune Sea ♪
♪ We can surf through the canyons or train a pack of dewbacks ♪
♪ Build a giant hamster habitat for womp rats, ♪
♪ Or fire up our solar-powered sandcastle-making machine. ♪
Backup: ♪ We're on Tatooine. ♪
Phineas: ♪ Yeah, we're livin' like kings out here ♪
♪ We got a two-sun summer the whole darn year ♪
♪ Cruisin' Beggar's Canyon in our T-16, ♪
♪ Or just sittin' on a rock eatin' blue ice cream. ♪
Backup: ♪ Blue ice cream. ♪
Phineas: ♪ 'Cause we're on Tatooine. ♪
Ferb: ♪ Awwww... ♪
♪ We got two big suns, count 'em, one and two ♪
Phineas: ♪ And there's two Flynn-Fletcher bois! ♪
Ferb: ♪ Me and you! ♪
♪ Well, we're brothers! We're step! No, we don't share a gene, ♪
♪ But we'll always be together here on Tatooine! ♪
Phineas: ♪ Jammin' with the Modal Nodes, racing turbo dust bikes ♪
♪ Tradin' with the Jawas ♪
♪ Trickin' out a droid or soupin' up the barge ♪
♪ For a trip 'round Anchorhead Tower ♪
♪ We can stop along the way and startle Tusken Raiders ♪
♪ And still be home in time to fix the vaporators ♪
♪ I think you know exactly what we mean. ♪
Backup: ♪ 'Cuz we love Tatooine. ♪
Phineas: ♪ Yeah, we're livin' like kings out here ♪
♪ We got a two-sun summer the whole darn year ♪
♪ Cruisin' Beggar's Canyon in our T-16, ♪
♪ Or just sittin' on a rock eatin' blue ice cream. ♪
♪ I may be wearin' my heart on my sleeve ♪
♪ But I can't understand why anyone would want to leave ♪
♪ We know our city pride may sound a tad extreme ♪
♪ But we're so happy here, we tend to overstate this theme ♪
Phineas and backup: ♪ Overstate this theme! ♪
Phineas: ♪ 'Cuz we love Tatooine! ♪
Backup: ♪ Oh, we love it! Oh, we love it here on Tatooine! ♪
Phineas: ♪ We love Tatooine! ♪
(Cut to Luke Skywalker working on something. We hear a car horn playing the Theme Song.)
Phineas: Hey, Luke!
Luke: Phineas! Ferb! What's up, guys?
Phineas: Ferb? (Ferb pushes a button) Check this out!
(The speeder's exhaust fumes rearrange themselves.)
Luke: Pod-racing engines? How'd you hook these up?
Phineas: We just picked up some power convertors at Tosche Station.
Luke: Nice!
Phineas: You need help with your moisture vaporator? We can trick it out like ours.
Luke: I wish, but Uncle Owen wants to do things the old-fashioned way. Even the droids he buys are used.
Phineas: Hey, Treadwell!
Treadwell: (beeps)
Phineas: Well, we'll catch you later, Luke! We're gonna mosey on home for lunch.
(They speed away.)
Luke: Wow, when they mosey, they mosey! What in... (Looks up and takes out binoculars.) Is that a Star Destroyer?
(Cut to the Star Destroyer beaming up the ship. Cut to inside the ship. A few Stormtroopers walk in. They are followed by three stormtroopers whose shapes look familiar.)
Candace: Finally some real Rebel-busting! (takes off helmet) This is why I joined the Empire in the first place.
Baljeet: I am so excited, I can hardly contain myself!
Buford: I toldja ta go before the raid!
Baljeet: That is not what I meant! But now that you mention it...
Candace: Alright, lock it up! We've got Rebels to bust!
(They are about to run when they are stopped by Candace's commanding officer.)
C.O.: Whoa, whoa, whoa! Where do you think you're going?
Candace: Uh, space battle over that way?
C.O.: Certainly not. You know your mission: to find socks for Lord Vader.
Candace: Yes, sir.
(The C.O. walks away.)
Candace: SOCKS?!? This is a total waste of my potential! (frustrated grunt)
Buford: Not me. This is about where I peak.
(Cut to Princess Leia putting the disc into R2-D2.)
Leia: Agent P, I need you to make sure this R2 unit goes to Obi-Wan Kenobi on Tatooine. But first, I need to record a video message. Be a dear and stand over by the bulkhead. You're kinda in my shot. (Perry walks away.)
(Cut back to Candace and the rest.)
Buford: So what color socks do you think think he wants?
Baljeet: Uh, black?
Buford: I'm just sayin', ev'rything the guy owns is black! You think maybe... (Candace signals for them to stop) What? (Cut to Leia putting the disc in R2-D2) Oh, there's somebody doin' somethin' over there.
Candace: Oh, yeah! It's busting time! (runs off, singsongy) Oh, Commander!
Baljeet: Huh, we are never gonna get those socks, are we?
Buford: Hey, I found a pair of socks.
Baljeet: Where?
Buford: Right here! (punches Baljeet)
Baljeet: Ow!
Buford: Don't be a baby, you're wearin' armor!
Baljeet: But it is plastic.
(Cut to Candace.)
Candace: Commander, Commander, there's a Rebel in a dress recording something into a droid!
C.O.: Ooh! By chance, was this droid distributing socks of any kind?
Candace: Well...no.
C.O.: Then it's none of your concern. Is it? Back on sock detail!
Candace: (growls)
(Cut back to Buford and Baljeet)
Buford: Me? I'm an argyle man.
Baljeet: Huh, I would not think that from looking at you.
Candace: Hey! Where'd they go?!
Buford: Danish Head ran off, but the droids are over there. (His blaster accidentally goes off.) Whoopsie!
(Cut to C-3PO and R2-D2 getting on an escape pod.)
C-3PO: Oh, no!
R2-D2: (beeps)
C-3PO: I'm going to regret this.
(Cut to Perry witnessing the escape pod get away.)
Imperial Officer 2: There goes another one.
Imperial Officer 3: Hold your fire. There's no life forms. It must have short-circuited.
Imperial Officer 2: (yawns and stretches) Coffee?
Imperial Officer 3: Yeah! Let's get some of that Sith Roast.
♪ SITH ROAST! ♪

(Cut back to Perry.)
Candace: (offscreen) They got away! (The Stormtroopers run in.) We've got to follow them! C'mon, we'll take the other escape pod!
Baljeet: Um, Candace?
Candace: What?
Baljeet: (to the tune of "The Imperial March") ♪ Socks, socks, socks, socks so-socks, socks, so-socks! ♪
Candace: Look, if we catch those two droids, we'll be promoted off of sock detail. Let's drift!
Baljeet: Technically, we will not be drifting. More like violent ejection, plummeting through the atmosphere and crashing onto the planet's surface.
(Agent P joins them in the escape pod.)
(Cut back to the Imperial Officers enjoying their coffee.)
Imperial Officer 3: Mmmm, that's good coffee. Did you know this was decaf?
Imperial Officer 2: Huh, I could not tell.
♪ Sith Roast! ♪...Mmm, decaf!
R2-D2: (screams offscreen)
(Cut to:)
♪ Fully operational Death Star! ♪
(A ship shaped like the Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated building flies in. Cut to on the ship where we see Darthenshmirtz and Norm-3PO observing the Death Star.)
Darthenshmirtz: How do you like that, Norm? My beautiful invention floating out here in space and do you think I get any credit for it?
Norm-3PO: Your invention, sir?
Darthenshmirtz: Well, yeah. I designed it to be a nutcracker. Here, l-l-look. Look at this. (He uses a model Death Star to crack a nut with a laser and eats it.) See? It works just fine. But the Empire took my idea and made it so big, it's completely impractical! A-A walnut would be totally obliterated!
Norm-3PO: The universe is cruel and unjust.
Darthenshmirtz: Well, when they see my new invention, they'll be singin' a diff'rent tune! All I need is to get my hands on a little bit of Force to get it up and running. But where am I gonna find some extra Force?
Norm-3PO: The Force surrounds us. It penetrates us. It binds the galaxy—
Darthenshmirtz: Yes, yes, I've seen the bumper sticker.

Act 2
(Open on 3PO and R2 on Tatooine.)
C-3PO: No more adventures. I'm not going that way.
(Pan left to an escape pod trapped in a sand dune. Candace kicks it open.)
Candace: Ugh! Tatooine. Okay, my busting instincts are telling me that the droids went (points ahead) that way. Now, come on!
(Buford and Baljeet jump out. Agent P comes out after them and walks in another direction. He follows R2-D2's tracks.)
(Wipe right to Candace and the rest.)
Baljeet: Actually, I joined the Empire by accident. I was trying to sign up for a physics camp.
Buford: Physics camp? Yeah, you're better off. Hey, Candace, why did you join the Empire?
Candace: Don't you remember anything from orientation? Rebels are cruel, heartless sub-humans who are messing up the galaxy! And I am all about law and order.
(Song: "In the Empire")
Candace: ♪ Ever since I was young, ♪
♪ You know, I hated dissension. ♪
♪ Among my peer group, ♪
♪ It caused a whole lot of tension. ♪
♪ When the other kids were slouching, ♪
♪ I would stand at attention. ♪
♪ And I've always looked so good in white. ♪
♪ Now I'm a bad mamma-jamma ♪
♪ And I rock a mean helmet ♪.
♪ If I see a rebellion ♪
♪ Then you know I'm gonna quell it. ♪
♪ I'm a certified, full-blown, ♪
♪ Armor-wearing zealot ♪
♪ And it feels so good to know I'm always right. ♪
♪ You can see exotic worlds across the galaxy, ♪
♪ In the Empire... ♪
Buford and Baljeet: ♪ In the Empire... ♪
Candace: ♪ You can be all that they want you to be, ♪
♪ You get a 401(k) and your meals are free ♪
♪ In the Empire. ♪
Buford and Baljeet: ♪ In the Empire... ♪
Candace: ♪ In the Empire. ♪
Buford and Baljeet: ♪ In the Empire... ♪
Candace: ♪ I don't know but I've been told, ♪
♪ The Rebels need to be controlled ♪
♪ We'll round them up and put 'em all in stocks, ♪
♪ But first we've gotta get Darth Vader socks! ♪
♪ It's so not fair! ♪
I mean, why am I still on sock detail when Gladys from Accounting got promoted to Commander, and she doesn't even know how to hold a blaster? No, I mean, really, she failed that part of the exam four times. She held it backwards and upside-down. But no, she's a second cousin of some midlevel Darth, and so she gets a promotion? What about me?
♪ If they would just open their eyes, they'd see that I've got everything it takes, I could be the stormiest Stormtrooper evaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhh!!!! ♪
Buford: Ya feelin' better?
Candace: Yeah. Thanks.
♪ You can see exotic worlds across the galaxy, ♪
♪ In the Empire... ♪
Buford and Baljeet: ♪ In the Empire... ♪
Candace: ♪ You can be all that they want you to be, ♪
♪ You can march to the beat of conformity ♪
♪ In the Empire. ♪
Buford and Baljeet: ♪ In the Empire... ♪
Candace: ♪ In the Empire. ♪
Buford and Baljeet: ♪ In the Empire... ♪
Candace: ♪ In the Empire. ♪
Buford and Baljeet: ♪ In the Empire... ♪
Candace: ♪ In the Empire. ♪
(Cut to Stormtroopers showing the C.O. something.)
Stormtrooper 4: Look, sir, droids!
C.O.: No, this is a bathtub stopper. TK-90210, what are you doing out here?
Candace: Well, we followed some droids that were ejected from the—
C.O.: Hup-bup-bup-bup-bup! The droids and the missing Death Star plans are none of your concern.
Candace: Death Star plans?
C.O.: Never you mind! You go to Mos Eisley! I'm sure you can find some socks for Lord Vader there.
Candace: (disappointingly) Yes, sir.
(Another Stormtrooper brings a stick.)
Stormtrooper 5: Look sir, a magic flute!
C.O.: (puts his head in hand) No, that's a stick!
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb's speeder pulling up to their home.)
Phineas: Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!
Lawrence: Hello, boys! You're just in time for lunch.
Linda: So, what's on the list? Another day filled with big plans? (reads the list) "Herd all the nerfs into Beggar's Canyon, teach the sarlaac to brush his teeth, and giving a bantha a shower." That's awfully ambitious!
Phineas: Just tryin' to make the most of each and every summer day! Hey, we stopped by and saw Luke.
Lawrence: Ooh, let me guess, was he staring wistfully at the horizon?
Linda: Lawrence?
Lawrence: What? Everyone knows that boy would rather be somewhere else. What about you two? The crops are so far ahead, would you like to spend the rest of the summer at swim camp on Naboo?
Phineas: Sounds fun, but we'll pass.
Linda: Well, how about ski camp on Hoth? Don't you boys ever want to see the rest of the galaxy?
Phineas: Not really. We've got everything we want right here on Tatooine. Sand, womp rats, brothers, and banthas. Why would anyone want to leave?
(They leave.)
Lawrence: Wait'll they see there's no girls on this planet!
Linda: Lawrence!
(Cut to night. A huge sandcrawler is seen. Some Jawas are heard speaking. Agent P spies on them. He sees R2 get beamed into the sandcrawler. Agent P goes after it. He looks at a bumper sticker that says, "My jawa is an honor student at Tatooine High.")
(Cut to the next day.)
Uncle Owen: (offscreen) Take these two over to the garage, will ya? I want 'em cleaned up before dinner.
Luke: But I was going in to Tosche Station to pick up some power convertors.
Uncle Owen: You can waste time with your friends when your chores are done. Now, come on, get to it.
(Perry jumps off the disposal.)
Luke: Well, come on, Red, let's go!
(Cut to Luke with 3PO and R5-D4. Pan left to reveal Owen giving money to a Jawa. R5-D4 malfunctions.)
Luke: Uncle Owen?
Uncle Owen: Yeah?
Luke: This R2 unit has a bad motivator, look!
Uncle Owen: Hey, whatta ya tryin' to push on us?!
(Perry walks ahead.)
Luke: (offscreen) What about that one?
Uncle Owen: (offscreen) What about that blue one? We'll take that one.
R2-D2: (beeps)
Luke: Okay, let's go.
C-3PO: Now don't you forget this. Why I should stick my neck out for you is quite beyond my capacity.
(Cut back to Perry behind the wheels.)
(Cut to Darthensmirtz's ship going into the Death Star.)
Darthenshmirtz: Norm, bring all my gear down to my lair.
Norm-3PO: You mean the abandoned recycling compartment?
Darthenshmirtz: It's a lair!
(Cut to Darthensmirtz on a moving sidewalk.)
Darthenshmirtz: Ooh, whadaya know? A moving sidewalk. (Darth Vader walks by.) Oh, ooh, Darth Vader! Hey, I know that guy! It's Darth Vader. Hey! (runs up to him) Hey, w-wait up, wait up! (knocks over a droid) Phew! Darth Vader! Hey look! Eh, I'm Darthenshmirtz! (trips) I'm not sure if you remember me, the Doof Star, the little nutcracker thing. And then you sorta stole my plans. (trips again) Anyway, I gotta new invention, and it's gonna knock your socks off! (trips again) I'm wondering if you could, uh, spare a little Force. I thought maybe you had a little extra lying around— (Bumps into a couple of Stormtroopers) Okay, uh, good talk.
(Cut back to Tatooine. Agent P looks at the home of Luke.)
C-3PO: (offscreen) Please, Master Luke took off your restraining bolt, now quit complaining. (Cut to inside.) Now I'm taking another oil bath. And I don't want to be disturbed. (goes down an elevator platform) Ahhh.
(A rock hits R2. Agent P motions for him to follow.)
(Cut to Luke looking at the two suns. Pan down to his legs to reveal Perry taking R2 with him.)
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb on their speeder.)
Phineas: Wow, that bantha took a while longer to clean than I thought it would. Well, we better get home.
(Cut to R2 and Agent P. Agent P notices a rock falling under him. He sees Phineas' speeder.)
Phineas: Whoa!
(The speeder crashes into R2, and the disc suddenly pops out. The speeder throws Perry into the ground. Phineas stops the speeder and he and Ferb look at R2.)
R2-D2: (beeps)
Phineas: Whoa, little fella. Sorry about that. Say, what's a droid like you doing out here in the Jundland Wastes?
R2-D2: (beeps)
Phineas: Oh, cool! A movie.
Leia hologram: Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. You're my only hope.
Phineas: Oh, she must mean Ben Kenobi. Hey, we were just there! We have Jedi lessons with him every Tuesday. He lives right up at the edge of the Dune Sea. Do you want a ride?
R2-D2: (beeps no)
Phineas: Okay, suit yourself. (R2 leaves) And remember, sand people hide single file to hide their numbers. (to Ferb) Oh, he probably already knows.
(They head back into the speeder.)
(Cut to Agent P climbing up a cliff. He tries to get to the speeder but it takes off and he falls down again and crashes into a birthday cake. He sees a bunch of Tusken Raiders having a birthday party.)
Tusken Raider: (growls)
(Cut to the speeder. Zoom in on the backseat to reveal the disc is still in the speeder.)

Act 3
(Open on the next day. Perry is seen baking something. We hear "Happy Birthday to You" playing in the background. He bakes a replacement cake for the Tusken Raiders.)
Tusken Raiders: (cheer)
(Agent P's holographic communicator goes off. Major Hologram appears on screen.)
Major Hologram: Ah, Agent P, our sources tell us that the R2 unit is safely in the possession of Obi-Wan Kenobi. You always come through for us. (Perry smiles nervously knowing that this isn't the case.) Great work! Now to take a well-deserved rest. (Hologram disappears. Agent P smiles and takes out a hanky to dry his sweat when his communicator activates again.) Agent P, I've got your next mission. You need to get to the Death Star immediately. Darthenshmirtz is working on a new inator. We need you to stop him before he can finish building it. Good luck.
(Hologram disappears again. Perry looks discouraged.)
(Wipe left to the home of Phineas and Ferb.)
Phineas: Okay, Mom! See ya later!
Linda: (offscreen) Don't forget your two-sun sunscreen.
Phineas: Way ahead of ya, Mom! Hey, what's this? "Death Star plans"? Wait, I bet it belongs to that R2 unit that we sent to Ben Kenobi's house. I wonder if he's still there.
Ferb: No. He is on his way to Mos Eisley.
Phineas: Oh, wow! Can you sense that with the Force?
(Cut to reveal Ferb looking through binoculars.)
Ferb: No, I can see them. They're right over there.
(Phineas takes the binoculars and looks through them. POV shot of Luke, Obi-Wan and the droids on a speeder.)
Phineas: (offscreen) You're right, Ferb. And Luke's with them! Inside a—
Tusken Raider: (growls)
Phineas: Whoa! (cut to reveal it's only Ferb playing with a puppet) Oh, you got me!
Ferb: (speaks Tusken and plays with the puppet)
(Cut to Mos Isley. A sign reads, "Mos Eisley Spaceport." A banner under it reads, "Now 14% more scum & villainy." Pull out to reveal the speeder with Luke and the others on it. Phineas' speeder follows them. Tracking shot of the village. The brothers pass by a few creatures and villagers. A post with a wanted poster with Han Solo and Chewbacca's images is seen. Boba Fett takes a number of the flyer.)
Blatto: Phineas and Ferb! My best customers!
Phineas: Hey, Blatto, we're trying to find an R2 unit and give him back this data disc. (Blatto takes the disc.) Hey!
Blatto: Let's take a look at it. (He puts it into an R2 unit's head and it shows a hologram of the Death Star.)
Phineas: Wow! It's an Imperial battle station the size of a moon! And according to these schematics, it seems to be designed specifically to destroy entire planets! Whoa, I-I never imagined the Empire would go that far! (Ferb points) Huh, you're right, Ferb. One proton torpedo in that small exhaust port and the whole thing goes blammo!
Blatto: Uh, it's like it's got a self-destruct button. What kind of idiot would design that?
(Cutaway to Darthenshmirtz at a water fountain to answer his question.)
Darthenshmirtz: Oh, why can't I master this?
(end cutaway)
Phineas: Wait, if the Rebels have this information, they might stand a chance against this thing. A small one-man fighter could penetrate the outer defense, fly along that trench, and get to the exhaust port.
Blatto: Hey, spoiler alert!!
Phineas: That droid must be part of the Rebel Alliance! We've gotta get this disc back to him!
(Cut to a shop called "Tall, Darth & Handsome." Candace walks out carrying a bag.)
Baljeet: Candace, did you get the socks?
Candace: Mission accomplished.
Buford: I gotta hoagie!
Baljeet: Are those the stolen Death Star plans we are not supposed to be looking for?
Candace: I don't believe it! (to Phineas and Ferb) Hey, you with the Death Star plans, you guys are so busted!
Phineas: Uh-oh! Let's get outta here!
(Phineas turns the unit off and flees with Ferb.)
Buford: And they're lost in the crowd.
Candace: Not on my watch! Let's go!
Phineas: Hey, look! There's the droid!
Candace: You two, stop right there! (Buford fires his blaster again) Buford!
Buford: Sorry, my bad!
(The laser hits a creature, which roars and runs off. Phineas and Ferb escape it and the creature goes after Candace and the others.)
Random Guy: (offscreen) My watermelon!
(Phineas and Ferb retreat into Docking Bay 94.)
Phineas: There's the droid! Let's get over there!
Stormtrooper 5: Stop that ship! Blast 'im!
(Han fights the Stormtroopers.)
Han: Chewie, get us outta here!
Chewbacca: (roars)
Phineas: Maybe we came at a bad time.
(The Millennium Falcon speeds off.)
Stormtrooper 6: Oh, crud, this is going to mean nothing but paperwork.
Phineas: If we don't get these plans to that R2 droid, entire planets could be destroyed. C'mon, we gotta find a pilot and follow that ship.
(Ferb points to the cantina. We hear the band playing.)
Cantina MC: (offscreen) Alright, Figrin D'an and the Modal Nodes! (Cut to inside the cantina where the band is leaving) Not a bad set, guys. Only one death and one dismemberment. Not bad for a Wednesday.
Ponda Baba: (speaks Aqualish)
Cornelius Evazan: I don't like him either.
Cantina MC: (offscreen) Alright, let's give 'er a big cantina welcome, folks, Vanessa the Twi'lek.
Phineas: (to the bartender) Um, we're looking for a pilot.
Bartender: Over there.
(Cut to two nurses carrying a dead Greedo on a stretcher.)
Nurse: Someone said he shot first, but I coulda sworn it was the other guy.
Bartender: Nope. There.
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb. Pan left to reveal Isabella alone at a table with a juice box. Cut to the stage. The curtain opens and Vanessa appears singing.)
(Song: "I'm Feelin' So Low")
Vanessa: ♪ I'd get out of here just as soon as I'm able ♪
Wookiee: (growls happily)
Vanessa: ♪ But my hyperdrive's on the fritz ♪
♪ Just today, the mynocks chewed my power cables ♪
♪ And my life's one big sarlacc pit ♪
♪ And I'm feelin' so low ♪
Isabella: Oh, great. What do you farm boys want?
Phineas: I'm Phineas and this is my brother, Ferb. We understand you're a pretty good pilot.
Isabella: For a price.
Phineas: Well, we have a very important disc we need to get to someone who just blasted out of Docking Bay 94.
Isabella: I know whose ship that is.
Phineas: Whose?
Isabella: Han Solo.
Vanessa: ♪ So low... ♪
Isabella: Solo's been a thorn in my side for years. My ship, the Centennial Chihuahua, was on pace to finish the Kessel Run in eleven parsecs, and that nerf-herder cut me off!
Vanessa: ♪ I'm feelin' so low ♪
Isabella: Everybody loves Solo! Twelve parsecs! If I ever hear his name again, I'll just—
Vanessa: ♪ So low, so low, so low, so low... ♪
♪ So low, so low... ♪
Isabella: Would you two excuse me? (Isabella fires her blaster and we hear Vanessa groan.) Yeah, we should probably get going.
(Cut to the stage to reveal that Isabella actually shot Vanessa's microphone.)
Vanessa: Well!
(Cut to the village. Cut to a docking bay.)
Isabella: Here's my ship, the Centennial Chihuahua.
Phineas: Why'd you call it the Chihuahua?
Isabella: It's personal.
Phineas: Seems weird you'd call it something you didn't wanna be asked about.
Isabella: You're right. It was a call for attention.
Candace: There they are! (She blasts at them and hits a light.)
Phineas: Whoa! Well, looks like we got it!
Isabella: (pulls the two brothers onto the ship) Move it! We gotta get outta here!
(Candace blasts at the ship.)
Candace: Fire the cannon!
Baljeet: I think the barrel end slides in here.
Buford: But then the scope is on the bottom! That's not right!
(Cut to the ship. Isabella starts her up.)
Isabella: Hold on, this is gonna be rough!
(Phineas and Ferb buckle themselves. The Chihuahua starts up.)
Candace: Give me that! (She flips the cannon around and aims.) You're goin' down! (She fires but the cannon explodes.)
Phineas: Uh-oh!
Isabella: I see it!
(Part of a building topples over and the ship dodges it. Cut to Buford and Baljeet.)
Buford: (to Baljeet) And you thought we were gonna die in space.
Candace: Move move move!
(The part of the building destroys the docking bay. Baljeet and Buford jump into a watering hole. Candace grunts.)
(Cut to space. The Chihuahua is floating away.)
Phineas: Gosh, Ferb. Our planet looks so small from here.
Isabella: First time in space?
Phineas: Well, yeah, now that you mentioned it.
Isabella: (rubs off the "planet" to reveal it's just dirt) Yeah, your planet's over here.
Phineas: Oh, that makes much more sense. Mom and Dad always did want us to see the galaxy, but I don't think that this is what they had in mind.
Isabella: You might want to buckle up. I'm makin' the jump to hyperspace!
(The ship goes to lightspeed. Phineas and Ferb crash into the windshield.)
Phineas: A little more warning would be nice.
(Cut to Tatooine. Candace and the others approach the C.O.)
C.O.: Ahem. I grow tired of asking this but, please, tell me you have the socks.
Candace: Yes! Buford? (Buford gives it to her.) With my compliments, sir.
C.O.: Excellent, now report to the Death Star for re-assignment. I'll deliver these to Lord Vader myself.
Candace: Finally! Now we're gonna see some action!
C.O.: Whoa whoa whoa! You're not riding in here! Uh, this shuttle's full. You can ride back to the Death Star on that bus pod.
Buford: What a piece of junk!
(The bus pod's horn honks.)
(Cut to the Death Star. Cut to inside. Darthenshmirtz is at a computer.)
Darthenshmirtz: Wait, that's it! I solved my Force problem! I can extract it from Vader's garbage. It...It says right here, see? You can find anything on the Internet. Hey, check it out, Norm-3PO. According to this real estate website, my time share on Alderaan is worth, like, 10 times more than I paid for it six years ago! Oh, I knew the value would go up! It's just, it's such a peaceful place to.. (Alderaan gets destroyed by the Death Star in the background.) Wait, what? What's this? The value is totally dropping!! Zero?!?!
(Cut back to the Chihuahua. Isabella hears some tinkering behind her.)
Isabella: (angrily) Hey, whatcha doin'?!
Phineas: Isabella, did you know that you have T-27 thermal couplings up here?
Isabella: Get down from there!
Phineas: Ferb and I can reroute their current to double up your power supply.
Isabella: Just keep your paws off my ship! (beat, takes out a notepad) Reroute thermal couplings.
Phineas: I wonder what our family and friends are doing back on Tatooine. It feels a little strange to be so far from them. But at least we're making new friends. Like you, Isabella.
Isabella: This is not a friendship, it's a spaceship! So don't invade mine! (something beeps) We're coming out of hyperspace! Buckle up, ladies!
Phineas: Whadaya think, Ferb? A girl like her and a guy like me?
(beat)
Ferb: Sure. Why not?
(They go into lightspeed but stop when they see the Falcon.)
Isabella: As promised, the Millennium Falcon. I should be able to catch him before he gets to that small moon.
Phineas: That's no moon. It's the Death Star! Isabella, turn the ship around!
Isabella: What have you guys gotten me into?! We're caught in a tractor beam! My engines can't pull us free! (puts on goggles) Looks like we're gonna have to shoot our way out! I'm powering up the turrets!
Phineas: There are alternatives to fighting.
(Phineas and Ferb get out lightsabers shaped like a hammer and a wrench.)

Part 2 Opening (Netflix only)
(Open on the starry sky as the Star Wars title screen reappears.)
Jim Cummings: Episode IVa: MAY THE FERB BE WITH YOU - Part 2. A voiceover guy, hungry for attention, breaks into a studio...
Dan Povenmire: Hey, he's, he's uh, back...
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: HEY! HEY! HEY! GET OUTTA HERE!...
Jim Cummings: What? What?
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: I'M NOT TELLING YOU AGAIN MAN!
Jim Cummings: Oh Man...
Dan Povenmire: What is up with that guy?

Act 4
(Open on both the Falcon and the Chihuahua caught in the tractor beam of the Death Star.)
Isabella: I should've known getting this close to Solo was a bad idea! Hurry it up back there!
Phineas: We've modified the deflector shield with a cloaking mechanism. Give it a try.
Isabella: Well, this had better work or you two are floating home!
Phineas: I don't think we can float all the way home. I mean, we wouldn't survive 15 seconds in the cold vacuum of spa—
Isabella: It's a figure of speech!
(She activates the deflector shield. The ship takes on the form of a TIE-fighter, an AT-AT walker, the inexplicable Giant Floating Baby Head, and finally a donut truck.)
Phineas: (offscreen) It worked! It even smells like donuts in here! Nice touch, Ferb.
Isabella: Okay, let's see if it fools them. (speaks in a "New Jersey" accent) Uh, Dockin' Bay control, ya got us cott in a track-ta beam heeyuh! Ya guys want donuts or not?
Imperial Officer Jeff: Oh, shoot! Disengaging tractor beam. (he shuts it off) Deliveries are in Docking Bay 427. You're clear to land. (to Dan) So, donuts?
Imperial Officer Dan: Does Darth Vader wear a funny hat?
Imperial Officer Jeff: Dude!
Imperial Officer Dan: Oh, relax, he can't hear us all the way down— (Gets Force Choked)
Imperial Officer Jeff: Oh, no! I didn't!
Imperial Officer Dan: Ha ha! Gotcha!
Imperial Officer Jeff: (grunts)
(Cut to the bus.)
Candace: Can you believe this? Making us ride the bus pod? (Buford is looking in the bag when he realizes something.) They better give us a Rebel-fighting job this time and not just running some more errands.
Baljeet: Uh-oh!
Candace: I mean, how hard is it to deliver socks?
Baljeet: Uh, Candace?
Candace: Yes?
Baljeet: I believe Buford requires your attention.
Candace: Oh, what is it, Buford? (Buford takes out some black socks from the bag to answer Candace's question.) Huh. Uh, Buford, I'm gonna ask you a question and I want you to think very hard before you answer.
Buford: Thinking is always hard.
Candace: I know. Here's the thing. If we have Darth Vader's socks, what exactly did we give the commander?
Buford: Uhhhhh....
(Cutaway to the Death Star. A hoagie drops on the ground. Vader Force chokes the C.O.)
Vader: I find your lack of socks disturbing.
(Cut to the disguised Chihuahua.)
Stormtrooper 6: Hello? Are you open yet?
Stormtrooper 7: Hope they have the old-fashioned. Those are my favorites.
Isabella: I can't believe that worked!
Phineas: I feel guilty, though. Maybe we should get them some donuts.
Isabella: WOULD YOU STAY FOCUSED?!
Phineas: Huh. Sorry.
Isabella: Okay, let's find Solo's ship and the droid, and then I'm outta here!
(They run up to the directory.)
Phineas: Well, they've landed in Docking Bay 327, and we're in Docking Bay 427. (looks at the map) That's not so bad. (Sees Ferb with his eyes closed and his hand out) What is it, Ferb? What's with the hand?
Ferb: I feel something. A presence I have not felt since...
(His eyes open, widen to reveal Perry next to him.)
Phineas: Perry! (Perry runs into his arms for a hug) Hey, old buddy!
Isabella: Who is this?
Phineas: This is Perry the Platypus. He used to be our pet until we found out he was secretly an agent for the Rebellion. We felt a little betrayed and hurt at first, but bygones be bygones. Now we're good, right?
Perry: (Chatters and thumbs up)
Phineas: So you're probably on a mission right now, huh? (Perry thumbs up) Hey, so are we! (fist bumps Perry) Heh. Oh, uh, this is our pilot, Isabella.
Isabella: (points and clicks tongue in a bored manner)
Phineas: So, uh, good luck. (shakes Perry's hand)
(Perry shakes Ferb's hand and takes off.)
Phineas: He looks good.
Isabella: Ugh! Let's get this over with!
(Cut to Darthenshmirtz's abandoned recycling compartment lair.)
Darthenshmirtz: There ought to be enough residual Force in Vader's garbage here to power it up for, y'know at least one shot.
Norm-3PO: One man's trash is another man's bad idea.
Darthenshmirtz: Just put the garbage in the chute, Mr. Wisendroider! (door beeps) Well, well, well, it's Perry the Rebelpus! (The door does not open all the way. Perry shrugs.) Oh, sorry about the door. I...I put in a work order, but the guy's not gonna get down here 'til, like, Thursday. So, y'know. Ah, ah, look, Norm, you see? You put a big red "X" on the floor, people will stand there! (A trap door opens under Perry and he drops down and gets frozen in carbonite.) Human nature! Or, in this case, platypus nature.
(Cut to another part of the Death Star. Isabella, Phineas and Ferb spy on a few marching Stormtroopers. Isabella walks out and motions for the two to follow.)
Phineas: What's wrong, Ferb? (Once again, Ferb has his eyes closed and hand out.) You got your hand up again.
Ferb: (Opens his eyes and puts his hand down) Perry is in trouble.
Phineas: Oh no! We must go help him.
Ferb: No. You must go get that disc to the Rebels. We cannot risk our mission.
Phineas: Split up? Really?
Isabella: Just do what you need to do fast and meet us at the Falcon!
Phineas: May the Force be with you and all that stuff.
(Ferb gives a thumbs up and leaves.)
Phineas: Come on! We gotta find that droid!
(Cut to Ferb on the lookout. Long shot to reveal Ferb on one floor and Obi-Wan on another walking in opposite directions. Obi-Wan stops for a second. Ferb mirrors his movements. They continue. Cut to Norm-3PO hammering a nail.)
Norm-3PO: (hanging up the trapped platypus) There. It's just like art!
Darthenshmirtz: Yeah, nothin' like a frozen platypus to tie a room together! Now, allow me to tell you why I created my latest inator.
(Song: "Sith-Inator")
Darthenshmirtz: ♪ You see, the Force with me is weak ♪
♪ I've never been that hip or chic, ♪
♪ People treat me like a freak ♪
♪ Sometimes they even boo and hiss. ♪
♪ Let me tell you, even though ♪
♪ My midi-chlorians are low, ♪
♪ I'll be the Death Star's CEO ♪
♪ When they get a load of this... ♪
♪ It's a Sith-inator ♪
♪ It's a really cool machine. ♪
♪ My evil will be greater ♪
♪ Than Darth Vader's ever been. ♪
♪ You ask all those haters ♪
♪ From Naboo to Tatooine, ♪
♪ They'll say, "Wow! That Darthenshmirtz is mean!" ♪
♪ When this is operational, ♪
♪ I'll zap myself, then bam! ♪
♪ The Force will be so strong with me, ♪
♪ They'll all know who I am! ♪
♪ And all those bureaucrats ♪
♪ That used to point and jeer and joke ♪
♪ If I put my fingers just like this ♪
♪ They're gonna start to choke. ♪
♪ Moff Tarkin will respect me, ♪
♪ Give me medals and a raise. ♪
♪ With all my newfound Sith-iness, ♪
♪ I'll set the Force ablaze! ♪
♪ The Emperor who used to only ♪
♪ Greet me with a yawn, ♪
♪ He now will say, "I'm blown away!" ♪
♪ Much like Alderaan. ♪
♪ It's a Sith-inator ♪
♪ It's a really cool machine. ♪
♪ My evil will be greater ♪
♪ Than Darth Vader's ever been. ♪
♪ You ask all those haters ♪
♪ From Naboo to Tatooine, ♪
♪ They'll say, "Wow! That Darthenshmirtz is mean!" ♪
♪ It's my Sith-inator, ♪
♪ It's got evil moving parts, ♪
♪ I'm a Sith creator ♪
♪ And my evil's off the charts! ♪
♪ And my portrait will be placed ♪
♪ On all the grandest evil heeeeeeeeeaaaaaaaarrrrrths... ♪
♪ And I'll no longer be the lowest of the Darths! ♪
♪ I'll no longer be the lowest ♪
♪ The fastest, not the slowest, ♪
♪ The yes-est, not the no-est, ♪
♪ And you'll all be eating crow-est, ♪
♪ I'll no longer be the lowest of the Daaaaaaaaaaaarths! ♪
Darth Vader can kiss my bantha!
Norm-3PO: (applauding) Very good, sir! That was better than rehearsal!
Darthenshmirtz: Alright, stay close to your comlinks, ladies, and, if all goes well, I'll have a victory number in the fourth act. (to Perry) So, like I said, I'm going to make myself super-evil with my Sith-inator here, but first, I'm gonna shoot you just to make sure it's safe and, uh, y'know, I don't...die or fry myself and have to wear one of those masks like Vader, 'cuz that would not be a good look for me.
(Cut to Ferb who is peeking in.)
Darthenshmirtz: (offscreen) Eh, y'know, plus, if it works, you can join me on the Dark Side. We can be Sith buddies! Whadaya think? Huh? (activates the inator)
(Ferb walks into the room and accidentally gets zapped.)
Ferb: (yells in pain)
Darthenshmirtz: Hold on. Wait a minute. Wait...what...who let a kid in here?! Hey, buddy, you okay? (to Perry) Yeah, he's gonna have a headache, but with any luck, he's gonna be so evil when he gets on his feet. Oh, great, I-I-I used up all the Force on this guy. Hey, Norm, grab the trash can. We gotta go refuel. Wait right here, Perry the Rebelpus. We'll be right back to turn you to the Dark Side, too, and then you, me, and...this kid in the cloak, I guess, can be the Three Sith-keteers!
Norm-3PO: Who can I be, sir?
Darthenshmirtz: You can be the horse. C'mon, let's go. We gotta get some more of that super-Force-y-Vader trash. I know just where to look.
(As soon as Darthenshmirtz and Norm-3PO leave, Ferb gets up revealing his yellow eyes as he looks at the inator.)

Act 5
(Cut to two Imperial Officers speaking to Han Solo on the com-link.)
Han: We're all right now...
Candace: TK-90210 reporting for duty, sir!
Imperial Officer 5: Just a minute.
Han: Uh, how are you?
Imperial Officer 6: Oh, tell him I'm doing great.
(The first Imperial Officer slaps the other one.)
Imperial Officer 5: We're sending a squad in.
Han: Uh, negative, negative. We have a reactor leak here, now, uh, no. Uh, give us a few minutes to lock it down. Uh, large leak. Very dangerous.
Imperial Officer 5: Who is this? What's your operating number? (Han blasts the comlink and it short circuits.)
Imperial Officer 6: Aw, I was just getting into that conversation!
Imperial Officer 5: All of you, directly go to Level Five, Detention Block AA-23!
Buford: Yeah!! Get them!
Baljeet: Buford, wait!
Candace: Finally, some real action!
Imperial Officer 5: Ah-dadadadadda! I need you to stay here and guard this post!
Candace: But but but...
Imperial Officer 5: That's an order!
Candace: Oh, bantha droppings!
(Cut to Phineas and Isabella on an elevator.)
Phineas: ...and no matter what, we always did everything together.
Isabella: Are you done?
Phineas: Yep.
Isabella: Good. Then let's get going!
(Cut to Candace playing with her helmet.)
Candace: Serious trooper. (takes mask off seriously, then puts it back on) Happy trooper! (takes helmet off and smiles, puts it back on) Enigmatic trooper. (takes helmet off and looks enigmatic, puts it back on) Sad trooper...
Phineas: (offscreen) It's down here around this corner, and... Uh-oh!
Candace: Hey, you're the ones with the stolen Death Star plans!
(Isabella blasts at her.)
Phineas: Run!
Candace: Hey, that's coming out of my salary!
(Cut to the garbage disposal. A dianoga pops out.)
Han: (offscreen, sarcastically) This garbage chute is a really wonderful idea! What an incredible smell you've discovered!
(Cut to under the waste to reveal Darthenshmirtz in a diving suit.)
Darthenshmirtz: Come here, boy, come here, that's it. Come on. (The dianoga swims up to him) That's it. Now, now, whatta ya got for Papa there? Ooh, is that Darth Vader's inhaler? Nice! Now we're talkin'! And what's this? This looks like a perfectly good bantha-cheese hoagie. Well, it's not good anymore. It's been underwater. Wow! According to this, it's reeking with Dark Force! Vader must've touched it. Put it in here. What else have you got for me? (The dianoga takes Luke.) That's not trash, dummy, that's a guy! Just put him back, I've got enough. Man, you can lead a dianoga to garbage but you can't make him think.
(Cut to outside. Darthenshmirtz walks out with the bag.)
Darthenshmirtz: Uh-uh-uh! Don't forget to flush!
Luke: (offscreen) The walls are moving!
Leia: (offscreen) Don't just stand there! Try and brace it with something!
Darthenshmirtz: Man, someone needs to oil that thing.
Chewbacca: (growls offscreen)
Darthenshmirtz: Okay, come on, Norm-3PO, let's go make some Sith happen.
(Cut to the still trapped Perry. His trapping device beeps, and deactivates.)
Darthenshmirtz: Oh, hey, they fixed the door! Must've been a cancellation somewhere. I'm gonna go check on the Sith-inator. You go see if that kid's evil yet.
Norm-3PO: Where did we leave him? Behind this box? (Perry emerges from behind the box with a blaster. He blasts Norm-3PO and he screams like R2-D2.)
Darthenshmirtz: Norm, what the heck are you standing around for? I thought I told you... Whoa whoa whoa whoa!! (Norm-3PO falls down on Darthenshmirtz. He groans.) Oh, my spleen.
(Cut to Perry tinkering with the inator.)
Darthenshmirtz: Hey, get away from that! Perry the Rebelpus, you stay away from my inator! Don't make me— (Perry pulls down on Darthenshmirtz's jaw and throws him out.) No wait! Wait wait! Whooo!!! (Perry pounces on him.)
(Cut to the Imperial Credit Union.)
Imperial Officer 7: You know, I'm thinking about getting a saxophone.
Imperial Officer Wayne: Huh, good for you.
(Darthenshmirtz and Perry crash through the wall.)
Darthenshmirtz: (To Perry) I'd like to see you try that again! (Perry does)
Imperial Officer 7: Uh, should we report that?
Imperial Officer Wayne: I'm not losing my place in line.
(Cut back to Candace chasing Phineas and Isabella.)
Candace: Hey, get back here, you two!
(They slip on the disposal liquid and Candace hangs onto a ledge.)
Candace: Aaaaaah! (grunts, as Luke and Leia swing from a rope in the background) Help! Help! Help me! I'm slipping!! (grunts)
Phineas: Oh no! I-I have to help her!
Isabella: Don't be a fool!
Candace: (grunts) (she whimpers as she is about to fall to her death until Phineas catches her by the hand) Aaah!
Phineas: I got you! (pulls her up)
Candace: Uh, but...
Phineas: (gasps)
Candace: Why would you save me? You're a Rebel.
Phineas: You were in trouble. I couldn't just leave ya hanging...literally.
Candace: Well... (a blaster goes off) Buford! Watch where you're shooting that thing!
Buford: Seriously! Why don't they put safeties on these blasters?
(He accidentally blasts up and a Stormtrooper falls to his death.)
Buford: Sorry, my bad!
Stormtrooper 8: Hey, don't worry about it! I'm planning on hitting the wall and sliding down until I catch onto a radio antenna! Oh no! Wait, that's Cloud City I'm thinking of! (he crashes through to space) Oh, crud!
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: But why would he save me?
(Cut to Phineas and Isabella running.)
Isabella: You're either really brave or really stupid! Well, kid, looks like your luck hasn't run out yet.
Phineas: There's the Falcon and the R2 unit! (They run down the stairs. Cut to the Docking Bay as Stormtroopers blast them.) It's getting away! But I've gotta get the disc to...
Isabella: Quick! Back to my ship!
Phineas: Wait, what about Ferb? We can't leave without him.
Isabella: If we don't leave now, we'll lose the Falcon.
Phineas: But I can't leave my brother.
Isabella: (indignantly) Tick-tock, tick-tock!
(Phineas looks at the disc.)
Phineas: Isabella, you've gotta take the disc back to R2. I'll go find Ferb.
Isabella: If I leave, I am not coming back!
Phineas: Fine. Just make sure you deliver the disc to the R2 unit.
Isabella: How do you know I won't just go back to Tatooine?
Phineas: (running off) I trust you!
Isabella: Remember that "brave or stupid" thing? I know which one it is!
(Cut to Phineas running off. He sees a room with a red light in it. He walks in and sees a very large device.)
Phineas: What is that? It looks like it was built by... (A cloaked figure drops down. Phineas knows who it could be.) Ferb?
(Ferb takes the hood off his cloak to reveal he now has Darth Maul-style makeup on his face.)
Phineas: Cool face paint!

Act 6
(Open on the Centennial Chihuahua heading toward Yavin. Cut to the Rebel Base. Two Rebel officers are hauling in R2.)
Rebel Officer 1: Oh no!
Rebel Officer 2: What?
Rebel Officer 1: The disc is gone! The one with the thing for blowing up the Death Star!
Rebel Officer 2: Are you kidding me?
Rebel Officer 1: It's supposed to be right here!
Rebel Officer 2: This is not happening! No no no! We are so dead!
Rebel Officer 1: Is it right there? Is it on the floor? Maybe it fell out of the flight deck. Okay. Okay, I know. We'll blame Jar Jar.
R2-D2: (beeps)
Rebel Officer 2: Jar Jar Bi— That's a terrible idea! He retired, like, 20 years ago!
Rebel Officer 1: Hey, it's not like we have a lot of options here.
Rebel Officer 2: Okay, let's do this. You go get a thermal detonator, and we'll put it right back here on the...
Rebel Officer 1: NO! How is that better than my Jar Jar idea?
Isabella: Yo, tech support. Got something for ya.
Rebel Officer 2: (takes the disc) Oh my gosh! Thank you!
Rebel Officer 1: Yes, thank you! You saved our lives! (chuckles) Whoa, that was a close one, huh? Hey, where do you think she found it?
Rebel Officer 2: Hey, man, never look a gift tauntaun in the oral cavity.
(R2 gets hooked up to the screen.)
(Wipe right to the Death Star.)
Darthenshmirtz: Hey, wait wait wait, I can't see! (Perry fights Darthenshmirtz.) Alright, someone's getting a lightsabering now! Oh, it's, uh, just a flashlight. I guess my lightsaber's in the camping supplies. (holds flashlight under his chin) Ooh, ooh, look, I'm scary—Uch, whatever. Bye! (he flees)
(Cut to Phineas and Darth Ferb.)
Phineas: So is there like a face painting booth around here or something? And where's Perry? Were you able to find him?
Darth Ferb: I found this: the Sith-inator. And I've modified it to create an army of Sith warriors. Join me on the Dark Side, brother.
Phineas: (laughs) Shut up, Ferb! C'mon, let's get outta here. Isabella already left. We gotta find the ship so we can get home.
Darth Ferb: The Dark Side is my home now. (gets out a lightsaber)
Phineas: Whoa, Ferb, what are you doing? (Phineas tries everything to avoid his now evil brother.) Come on, quit messin' around! Hey, this-this isn't funny. I'm not gonna fight you.
Darth Ferb: If you will not join me, then I must destroy you.
Phineas: Okay, I can see you're serious. (Darth Ferb swings his lightsaber and Phineas dodges it.) Ferb, this isn't you! We're brothers!
(Phineas gets out his lightsaber and they battle it out.)
Phineas: Hey, this is crazy! We-We-We would never try to hurt each other! (Darth Ferb reveals he has a double-edged lightsaber. They continue to fight.) Is that the best you got? (Darth Ferb reveals he has more lightsabers now.) Oh, we're allowing modifications, huh? Gimme a sec. (He tinkers with his lightsaber.)
(Cut to Candace. Buford and Baljeet slip up behind her.)
Buford: Hey, Candace, what's up?
Candace: Um, I was just thinking, we're the good guys, right?
Baljeet: Yes, I believe so.
Buford: That's what they told us durin' the brainwashin'.
Baljeet: Orientation, Buford!
Buford: Potato, tomato.
Candace: And Rebels are bad. We know that.
Baljeet: Of course. The Rebels are always the bad guys.
Buford: What about Robin Hood?
Baljeet: That has not happened yet!
Candace: Well, one of the Rebels just saved my life. He could've escaped, but, instead, he came back to help me.
Buford and Baljeet: Hmmmm...
(beat)
Candace: And didn't we just blow up a planet?
Baljeet: Hmm, yes, that is sort of difficult to justify...morally.
(Cut to Darthenshmirtz being chased by Perry. He pushes a button and the platform goes in.)
Darthenshmirtz: (maniacal laughter) You're over there and I'm over here and never the twain shall meet. So I guess you're just gonna have to give up. (Perry takes a grappling hook out of his uniform.) Oh, I-I see, you're gonna swing across like a monkey-man. (pounds on his chest) Hoo-hoo-hoo! Me swingy-swingy monkey-man! Go ahead, knock yourself out. There's no way you got enough cable to reach that. (The grappling hook latches onto Darthenshmirtz's uniform.) Oh, I see what you were trying to— Yaaah! (Both Perry and Darthenshmirtz fall and get caught on another platform.) Ow! No no no! (They crash through a wall.)
(Cut back to the Rebel Base. The Chihuahua is parked there. Isabella sees Han and Chewie.)
Isabella: Well, well, well, Han Solo.
PA Announcer: All flight crews, man your stations.
(The Firestar Girls approach Isabella.)
Gretchen: Hey, look! It's Isabella! Isabella, you've joined the Rebellion?
Isabella: Not by a long shot.
Gretchen: Well, you should. You're a great pilot. We need you, the odds are stacked against us. The Empire has everything, a Death Star, highly-trained troops, Darth Vader. And we're just a ragtag bunch of undertrained good-intentioned Rebels. And to be perfectly honest, Isabella, we're kids. We are actual children, and they're letting us fly fighters. That's how hopeless the situation actually is. So, you wanna help us?
Isabella: Strangely, still no. (She leaves them.)
Porkins: (offscreen) Worst rallying speech ever!
Gretchen: Shut up, Porkins!
(Song: "Let's Take A Rocketship To Space" (jazz piano version))
(Cut to a bunch of fighters taking off. Isabella walks into a bar.)
Isabella: I'll have one of those. (she gets a juice box and some peanuts. Han and Chewie sit next to her.) What happened, Solo? Garbage scow tip over and dumped you here?
Han: What are you doing here, Isabella? Did someone run out of cupcakes?
Isabella: Very funny. So where are you heading?
Han: As far away from here as possible. (eats some peanuts)
Isabella: Yeah. I don't have any reason to stay here either.
Han: I don't owe anything to anybody. (eats some more nuts. Chewie looks at him.)
Isabella: I'm not in this to make friends.
Han: Yeah. Obviously.
Isabella: What do you mean by that? I've got friends! I've got plenty of friends!
Han: Yeah? Where are they now?
(beat)
Isabella: Well...where are yours?
Chewbacca: (growls)
Han: Put a sock in it, fuzzball!
Chewbacca: (whimpers and growls)
Han: (sighs) Maybe you're right. Maybe I do have someplace to be. See you around, Isabella.
(Han and Chewie leave her.)
Isabella: (sighs) Eh, the Wookiee is right. (she leaves)
(Cut back to Phineas and Darth Ferb as they tinker with their lightsabers. They turn them on and they are now evenly matched. They rev up the motors and the lightsabers start twirling. The fight resumes. Darthenshmirtz falls through the roof onto the floor.)
Darthenshmirtz: Ow.
(The fight resumes again.)
Darthenshmirtz: Ah, it's good to be back. (Perry drops in) Hey! You're too late! No stopping me now! (He drops down into the trap door and gets frozen in carbonite.) Hey, it's cold in here! Ow! I've got such an ice cream headache!
(Cut back to the fight. Darth Ferb destroys Phineas' lightsaber. Perry notices Phineas in trouble and runs off to help him. Darth Ferb stops him with the Force. Darth Ferb further destroys Phineas' lightsaber with the Force. He activates the inator.)
Darth Ferb: Now you will join me! (a blast shoots him and he groans)
Candace: Step away from the Rebel!
Phineas: Don't shoot him! He's my brother!
Candace: Your brother's a Sith warrior?!
Phineas: No. I mean, yes. I mean...it's a recent development. Wait, why are you helping me? I'm a Rebel!
Candace: I had to. I couldn't just leave you hanging.
Darthenshmirtz: Hey, heads up!
(Candace screams as Darth Ferb attacks her.)
Darthenshmirtz: Hey, watch it!
Candace: Hold it right there, pal! Aaah! (Darth Ferb attacks her more.)
(Phineas runs up to the inator but Darth Ferb stops him. It looks like this is the end. Cut to Candace who pulls out some black socks out of her pocket.)
Darthenshmirtz: Hey, you're gonna stretch out the elastic.
Phineas: Ferb! Please stop!
(The sock with a rock in it hits Darth Ferb. Cut to Candace who swings another one at him.)
Candace: Now I really wish I'd bought the three-pack!
(Phineas throws the broken lightsaber at the inator. It goes into the self-destruct port.)
Darthenshmirtz: Oh, man. I really should have ray-shielded that.
(KABOOM!)
Phineas: (groans) Ferb? (Candace and Perry help him look under the rubble.)
Ferb: (groans)
Phineas: Are you okay?
(Ferb unslicks his hair and gives a thumbs up.)
Phineas: (hugs Ferb) Ferb!
(A shadowy figure comes in. He unhoods himself as Buford wearing the now deceased Obi-Wan's robe.)
Buford: Found this perfectly good robe lying around. Has one hole, right here. Hey, look what else I just found! My hoagie!
Baljeet: I would not eat that if I were you.
Candace: C'mon! Let's get off this battle station.
Phineas: But we don't have a ship!
Candace: I know where there's a bus pod.
Phineas: Perry, great work! Hey, don't be a stranger!
Darthenshmirtz: You think maybe you could turn this thing over? All the blood's rushing to my head.
(Cut to the gang running down the hall as the fighters shoot outside.)
Phineas: Hey, it's Luke! They must've got the plans! He should hit that exhaust port no problem. I mean it's as practically as big as a womp rat! (beat) Yeah, we should probably get outta here.
Candace: Come on! The bus pod is right through here!
(A bus pod leaves.)
Candace: Wait wait wait!
Buford: No no!
(They all shout at the bus pod.)
Baljeet: Oh no! That was the last ship!
Buford: Yeah, we're toast.
Phineas: Well, if we had to go out, at least it was for something we believe in.
Baljeet: My only regret is that I spent so much time on the wrong side.
Buford: My only regret is that I ate that hoagie.
Phineas: I guess if I have a regret, it's that I never got reunited with my sister. She left Tatooine when I was just a baby.
(Ding!)
Candace: Phineas?
Phineas: Candace?
Candace: (hugs her brother) Oh, I can't believe it! You got so big!
Phineas: Candace!
Candace: I didn't even recognize you! Hey, wait a minute, why is this guy hugging us?
Phineas: Oh, this is Ferb. He's our stepbrother.
Candace: Mom remarried? What happened to Dad?
Phineas: (laughs) Funny story actually. He—
(The Death Star is destroyed before he can tell the story. Pan left of the debris to reveal the Chihuahua to the rescue.)
Phineas: Wow, that was close! Thanks for coming back to get us, Isabella.
Isabella: Well, that's what friends are for.
Baljeet: Oh, but what about all those innocent baristas and bank tellers and bowling alley attendants?
Isabella: They're fine. The Firestar Girls got them out earlier.
(Cut to the Firestar Girls' ship.)
Everyone onboard: We're okay!
(Pan left to reveal the Imperial Officer at the bank finally got himself a sax.)
(Cut to Agent P's ship.)
Major Hologram: Ah, Agent P, with you stopping Darthenshmirtz, and the Rebellion destroying the Death Star, this day will be long remembered. Apparently, there are still copies of the Death Star plans out there so, we still might have a teeny problem there, but, heh, we'll blow up that battle station when we come to it. Hologram out!
(Some carbonite is seen melting, which Perry knows only means one thing.)
Darthenshmirtz: Ha ha! So long, Perry the Platypus! Now I can live to fight in the sequel! (He goes into an escape pod laughing.) Eh. I probably should have thought this one through better. I didn't realize the escape pod would be Platypus-sized. Plus, I'm sitting on my keys.

Act 7 / End Credits
(Open on the medal ceremony as everyone cheers for the heroes.)
Chewbacca: (growls)
Phineas: The Wookiee is right! Let's party!
(Song: "Rebel, Let's Go!")
Vanessa: All right, boys, let me hear some of that Rebel bass!
♪ We don't often have a cause ♪
♪ For a celebration, ♪
♪ No, we don't always have a reason to smile. ♪
♪ We've been knocked over, stepped on, ♪
♪ Straight-up oppressed, ♪
♪ Our resolve and endurance ♪
♪ Have been put to the test. ♪
♪ We've been under-thumbed, undervalued, ♪
♪ Under arrest, ♪
♪ And we haven't seen the sun for a while. ♪
♪ But the tables have turned, ♪
♪ The momentum has shifted, ♪
♪ Can't you feel the change in the air? ♪
♪ A new hope has returned, ♪
♪ Our spirits are lifted, ♪
♪ Go tell ev'rybody ev'rywhere! ♪
♪ Time to celebrate! ♪
♪ (Oh, oh! Oh, oh!) ♪
♪ Rebel, please, I think you ought to know, ♪
♪ (Oh, oh! Oh, oh!) ♪
♪ If you've been waitin' for a chance to party, ♪
♪ Then Rebel, let's go! ♪
♪ (Rebel, let's go!) ♪
♪ Rebel, let's go! ♪
♪ (Rebel, let's go!) ♪
All the Wookiees in the house go "Grrrrr!"
Chewbacca: (growls)
(The song continues under.)
Isabella: Hey, farm boy. We're not related, are we?
Phineas: Oh, no, no, no. Not a chance. I only have just the one sister.
Isabella: (pulls him in) Good. (she kisses him and Phineas faints in a daze) Mmmmmwah!
Vanessa: ♪ Tell ev'ryone we're back in full force ♪
♪ Time to celebrate! ♪
♪ (Oh, oh! Oh, oh!) ♪
♪ Rebel, please, I think you ought to know, ♪
♪ (Oh, oh! Oh, oh!) ♪
♪ If you've been waitin' for a chance to party, ♪
♪ Then Rebel, let's go! ♪
♪ (Rebel, let's go!) ♪
♪ (Oh, oh! Oh, oh!) ♪
♪ Time to celebrate and wreck the status-quo! ♪
♪ (Oh, oh! Oh, oh!) ♪
♪ If you've been waitin' for a chance to party, ♪
♪ Then Rebel, let's go! ♪
♪ (Rebel, let's go!) ♪
♪ Rebel, let's go! ♪
♪ (Rebel, let's go!) ♪
♪ Rebel, let's go! ♪
♪ (Rebel, let's go!) ♪
♪ Yeah, yeah! Rebel, let's go! ♪
♪ (Rebel, let's go!) ♪
♪ Rebel, let's go! ♪
Porkins: (parachuting in) Hey, look, everyone, I'm okay! (crash!)
Gretchen: Way to ruin the moment, Porkins!



(Open up on Phineas and Ferb sitting under a tree in their backyard)
Phineas: It's a mystery, Ferb. A riddle. Whispering a secret to an enigma while driving down a lost highway in an Escher painting. How do they get the toothpaste into the tube?
Ferb: Sometimes, if you're lost, it's best to just go...
(Candace is listening to her MP3)
(Song: "Ordinary Day")




Ferb (cont'd): ... along for the ride.


Paisley Sideburn Brothers: (playing on Candace's MP3)
♪ Take your time, look far and wide ♪





Candace: New Paisley Sideburn Brothers album, don't make me bust.


Paisley Sideburn Brothers (cont'd): (playing on Candace's MP3)
♪ Just step outside, take a walk on the sunny side ♪


Phineas: And how do they get the red and blue toothpaste to swirl?
(A mysterious capsule falls from the sky)
Phineas: Whoa. Hmm. Apparently, it just fell out of the sky.
(Ferb puts up an umbrella)
Phineas: Well, I guess it's the only one. Let's open it up and see what's inside.
(Ferb puts down the umbrella and walks up to the capsule. He attempts to open it up.)
Phineas: Wow. It's a day full of questions. First the toothpaste, and now this.
Ferb: And of course, "where's Perry?"
Phineas: Yeah! See what I mean? We're up to our armpits in enigmas!
(cut to Perry's lair)
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P. Glad you're here. Doofenshmirtz has been incommunicado for far too long. Either he's up to something big or he's met with some sort of foul play. (Perry leaves his seat) Man, that was rather abrupt. You know, sometimes, I feel like he just comes here to get his assignments.
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard. There's a banging sound.)
Phineas: Aw, crud. It's the third battle ax I've broken on this thing. Sorry about that, Dumpy.
Dumpamir: The name is Dumpamir!
Baljeet: Wow! The fact that we cannot open it makes discovering the contents that much more tantalizing!
Phineas: I know, right? Luckily, Ferb has been working on a special z-ray machine that can see through any substance on the periodic table. It's highly experimental so you might want to encase yourself in this lead body armor.
(machine fires)
Ferb: Well, we can't see into the capsule, but your second molar has a cavity. And it looks like Mrs. Garcia-Shapiro is making kreplach tortillas.
(cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry walks in. Dr. Doofenshmirtz is missing)
(black and white flashback starts. Doofenshmirtz is on his evil blog.)
Doofenshmirtz: (A shadowy figure grabs him and he screams)
(Perry notices a new -inator. Doofenshmirtz is put in blindfold. Perry realizes Doofenshmirtz's foot tracks.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey! That's my lunch!
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard. A piano is dropped on the capsule.)
Phineas: I think I'm actually running out of ideas here.
Isabella: And pianos.
Baljeet: Should I go get a pipe organ?
Buford: I know the secret of how to open that hatch!
Phineas: You do?
Buford: I do! You see, for generations and generations, the Van Stomm family has been the guardian of the secret knowledge and protectors of the mystery capsule. We made the thirteenth-century Templars look like a bunch of wusses. And throughout the ages, our family has pledged our lives to conceal it from the unenlightened. And in doing so, we were entrusted with the only key that can unlock the capsule secrets.
Baljeet: Really?
Buford: Nah, just messin' with ya. I found it on the other side of the fence. I saw it fall out of the lock when the capsule dropped from the sky.
Phineas: It's worth a try.
(cut to Perry)
Major Monogram: Nice work, Agent P. Carl's analyzing the footprint sample you pulled from Doof's living room as we speak.
Carl: We've analyzed the mud and there seems to be a large number of caffeine molecules in there. Along with some rain water.
Major Monogram: So our only leads are coffee and the rainy climate. That could be anywhere!
(cut to Seattle, WA. Doofenshmirtz is in a dark room in barrel-shaped furniture)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, hello! Anyone there? Marco! Y-you're supposed to say Polo! There better be a satisfying explanation for this when it's over or I'm gonna be merciless on my blog!
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard. Ferb inserts the key in the capsule.)
Phineas: Yeah, baby!
Baljeet: What mysteries does it contain? (gasps) Perhaps dozens of stray Schrödinger's cats!
Buford: But I ain't cleaning that litter box.
(capsule opens)
(all gasp)
Baljeet: Why is it smoking like that?
Buford: And why are we all tilted?
Irving: Whoops, sorry!
Crazy Old Man: You understand what you've done?
Phineas: Who are you?
Crazy Old Man: I'm you! From the future!
(all gasp)
(cut to Doofenshmirtz. The shadowy figure takes off his blindfold)
Doofenshmirtz: (gasps) Peter the Panda? Oh, that was a good shot of me. Oh, and that one. That one, too. And that one, that one was terrible, my nose looked all crooked, eh, it needed scribbling on it.
Shadowy Figure: Hello, Doofenshmirtz!
Doofenshmirtz: Hello, inky shape hovering in the darkness, what gives?
Shadowy Figure: It is I, Professor Mystery.
Doofenshmirtz: Okay.
Professor Mystery: Peter the Panda never mentioned me?
Doofenshmirtz: No, but he doesn't actually, you know, talk. So, you gonna tell me why you kidnapped me? (no response) Um, hello! I know you're still out there. I can see your eyeballs. What's with all the silence? It's very off putting.
Professor Mystery: Mystery...is my allure.
Doofenshmirtz: Oh. This is gonna be a fun conversation.
(cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard)
Phineas: Wait a minute. You're me from the future? What happened to my nose?
Crazy Old Man: Never mind about our nose...es. Listen to that. If that hamster stops running, the black hole will break containment, reality will collapse, and now you've exposed my hamster to atmosphere! It's only a matter of time before he weakens!
Baljeet: Wait, you have a hamster that's allergic to air?
Crazy Old Man: You must believe me!
Baljeet: Why?
Crazy Old Man: Because I'm you from the future!
Baljeet: Wait, I am not Indian in the future?
Crazy Old Man: 'Kay! (to Isabella) I'm you from the future.
Isabella: That doesn't even make sense.
Old Woman: Stop telling people you're them from the future!
Phineas: Who's that?
Crazy Old Man: That's just Denise. Ignore her. She's no one from the future.
Denise: I heard that! Hi, kids. Sorry for the intrusion.
Crazy Old Man: There's no time to lose!
Denise: Settle down, Bernie! Remember your blood pressure!
Bernie: What did I tell you? It's happening. He's slowing down!
Denise: Oh, let him! I'm so tired of that hamster runnin' our lives!
(The capsule is beeping.)
Phineas: What's that flashing?
Baljeet: That cannot be good.
Buford: Well, you did hit it with a lot of pianos.
(Cut to Doofenshimirtz in a capsule carried on furniture dolly by Professor Mystery.)
Doofenshmirtz: Seriously though, what's with the kidnapping? And why do you have an obsessive shrine to Peter the Panda?
Professor Mystery: Because I am Peter the Panda's nemesis.
Doofenshmirtz: (gasps)
Professor Mystery: You're surprised?
Doofenshmirtz: Well yeah, of course. But come on, if I knew he had a nemesis. I would never want to be the other evil scientist. (sees Professor Mystery's -inator) Ooh! An inator! So what does it do?
Professor Mystery: I can't divulge that because mystery...
Doofenshmirtz: ...is your allure. Yeah, yeah, I know. So do you tell Peter the Panda your plans before or after you trap him? It's just...I'm always interested in process.
Professor Mystery: I don't tell him at all. It would ruin the mystery...which is my—
Doofenshmirtz: But he's your nemesis! He's gotta know what he's thwarting! I mean, it's just common courtesy! What, you expect him to infer it from your complicated backstories? (Mystery simply walks away.) Wait, don't—Oh, no. Don't tell me that you've never even given him a backstory! Well, there's your problem! There's your problem right there!
Professor Mystery: What?
Doofenshmirtz: Lack of communication. Gimme a beat. (A beat is somehow given and chorus girls appear out of nowhere.)
(Song: "Talk to Him")
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ You can can it with the mystery, ♪
♪ You don't have to be so vague. ♪
Chorus girls: ♪ So vague! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Give your nemesis some history, ♪
♪ All the reasons you're a... ♪
Doofenshmirtz and chorus girls: ♪ Rotten egg. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: (While Chorus girls ooh in the background) ♪ It's not enough just to show him your device, ♪
♪ You've got to tell him what it does. ♪
♪ I think you'll be surprised that his attention span, ♪
♪ He's the only one that's gonna understand, ♪
♪ You gotta tell him all of your evil plans, because... ♪
Doofenshmirtz and chorus girls: ♪ You've got to... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Talk to him ♪
Chorus girls: ♪ Ooh! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Tell him... ♪
Doofenshmirtz and chorus girls: ♪ Every twisted scheme that's in your head ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Talk to him ♪
Chorus girls: ♪ Ooh! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ You've got to... ♪
Doofenshmirtz and chorus girls: ♪ Give him some specifics he can dread. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Talk to him. ♪
♪ Don't just... ♪
Doofenshmirtz and chorus girls: ♪ Stand there like a rock. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ He's got two furry ears, so use them ♪
Chorus girls: ♪ Use them! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I know you really want to bruise him ♪
Chorus girls: ♪ Bruise him! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ But I think you're gonna lose him if you don't talk ♪
Chorus girls: ♪ If you don't talk ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Communication is the key, ♪
♪ If you just open up, you'll see, ♪
♪ And maybe he'll stop thwarting me... ♪
Doofenshmirtz and chorus girls: ♪ If you just talk! ♪
(The number ends and the girls leave.)
Professor Mystery: How did you get chorus girls in here?
Doofenshmirtz: Eh, they're union, they'll travel.
(Cut back to the backyard where the hamster is slowing down.)
Bernie: (holding Phineas) There's only one way to stop this! Listen carefully! (A red bird flies out of his beard with the wind.) Hey, Denise, I found your bird!
Denise: You did? Where was he?
Bernie: He was in my beard! (back to Phineas) Anyway, there's only one way to stop this! (gets blown away and screams)
Isabella, Buford and Baljeet: Oh no!
Phineas: Quick, everyone! Grab hold of the tree!
(They do.)
Isabella: Now what?!
Baljeet: Of course, this is the one time an object has not disappeared from the backyard!
Buford: Yeah, that's an annoying break in the pattern!
Isabella: Well, actually, that's not the pattern! The pattern makes something disappear after—
(pause for dramatic effect)
Everyone: CANDACE!!!!
(Cut to Candace's bedroom where she is still listening to her music. She then looks out her window at the chaos and instantly goes into busting mode.)
Candace: (gasps) MOM MOM MOM MOM MOM!!!
(Cut back to Mystery's lair.)
Professor Mystery: You're the last person I'm going to take advice from, you nemesis stealer!
Doofenshmirtz: Even with musical accompaniment, you just don't get it. Ugh! I'munna have to spell it out for you: It's not my fault that you and Peter are having problems. It's yours!
Professor Mystery: (activating the inator) We'll see whose fault it is, after I activate my true-purpose-shrouded-in-an-enigma-inator! (The inator activates) Because in just a few moments, you will be zapped, and my vengeance will be complete!
Doofenshmirtz: (sighs) Yawn! I mean I-I-I'd be so much more concerned if I understood what the stakes were, man. Y-Y-You've (sighs again) Man!
Professor Mystery: Hmm?
(Cut to a wall being burned through. Peter the Panda comes out from the other side.)
Doofenshmirtz: Peter the Panda! Wow, I never thought I would be so glad to see my nemesis.
Professor Mystery: Peter the Panda is not your nemesis!
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, you're right. He's not even my nemesis. H-H-He's more of a thwarty call.
Professor Mystery: Don't you diminish him like th— (he gets body slammed by Peter.) See? He's thwarting me! You mean nothing to him, Doofenshmirtz! (gets punched) Yes yes! (gets punched again) You see? This is good, isn't it? (to Peter) What did he give you that I couldn't give you?
Doofenshmirtz: An evil monologue for one thing!
Professor Mystery: What?
Doofenshmirtz: Communication! Oh, for cryin' out loud! At least tell him what your inator does!!
Professor Mystery: Huh? Oh yes! It's an unexist-inator!
Doofenshmirtz: WHAT?!??!?! Well-Well, now I'm worried! See? Communication. It works.
(Perry finally makes his entrance and tips the inator up to which it fires out of the ceiling and bounces off the Space Needle.)
(Cut back to the backyard.)
Buford: I can't hold on much longer! The one day my—
(Song: "Tuff Gum" (instrumental))
Announcer: TUFF SHOO LAYSIZZ!
Buford: —are in the wash! (He lets go of the branch and flies off.)
(Right on cue, the inator beam makes the capsule disappear from existence. Also, right on cue, Candace brings her mother out to the backyard.)
Candace: Hurry, Mom! C'mon c'mon! What?!
Baljeet: That did not hurt as much as I expected.
Buford: Yeah, you're welcome, people.
(Cut to a coffee shop where Mystery and Peter are having a conversation as Doofenshmritz and Perry look from the window.)
Professor Mystery: So, my own parents accidentally created a black hole and became obsessed with containing it, eventually firing themselves into orbit for fear that they would jeopardize the planet, but they abandoned me in the process. That is what motivated me to become evil in the first place and, eventually, build my unexist-inator, which you destroyed tonight! Wow, it really feels great to tell someone all this!
(The crazy old people from the backyard approach him.)
Bernie and Denise: Son!
Professor Mystery: Mom? Dad?! You're back! (He hugs them.)
Denise: Awww...
Professor Mystery: I want you guys to meet my nemesis, Peter the Panda.
Bernie: You have a nemesis?
Denise: Our boy's all grown up!
Bernie: Why is he a panda bear?
Denise: Bernie!
Bernie: What? I was just wondering.
(Cut to outside as Doofenshmritz and Perry leave them.)
Doofenshmirtz: Come on, Perry the Platypus. Let's go home. I talk to you enough, right? Yeah, you're right. Maybe too much.
(Cut back to the backyard.)
Linda: Why don't you come in for some snacks, kids? And if you see your dad, tell him to join us.
Candace: But-but-but-but... Fine.
Phineas: Y'know that was pretty intense, Ferb. We could've blown up the planet or ripped open the space-time continuum or something. I just hope we didn't cause any real damage. (A polar bear appears next to them.) Oh, hi, Dad! Mom has snacks if you wanna join us!
Polar bear (with Lawrence's voice): Oh, jolly good, boys. I am a bit peckish.
Phineas: Maybe there's some pie left.
(A hole opens behind the boys as another Phineas looks on. Cut to the other side of the hole to show the real Phineas and Ferb working on the sorbet machine that turns people into flies.)
The real Phineas: Whoa! That was weird! Was that us?
The real Ferb: Couldn't be. That Phineas had four white stripes on his shirt, and you only have three.
Phineas: Good point. Not to mention our dad isn't a polar bear.

End Credits
(standalone broadcasts only)
(Song: "Talk to Him")
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Talk to him ♪
Chorus girls: ♪ Ooh! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ You've got to... ♪
Doofenshmirtz and chorus girls: ♪ Give him some specifics he can dread. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Talk to him. ♪
♪ Don't just... ♪
Doofenshmirtz and chorus girls: ♪ Stand there like a rock. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ He's got two furry ears, so use them ♪
Chorus girls: ♪ Use them! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I know you really want to bruise him ♪
Chorus girls: ♪ Bruise him! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ But I think you're gonna lose him if you don't talk ♪
Chorus girls: ♪ If you don't talk ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Communication is the key, ♪
♪ If you just open up, you'll see, ♪
♪ And maybe he'll stop thwarting me... ♪
Doofenshmirtz and chorus girls: ♪ If you just talk! ♪



(Open on the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Candace: (from inside) C'mon, c'mon...
(Cut to Candace's bedroom where she is engaged in some online role-playing game on her laptop.)
Candace (cont'd): ...Stace! Cover me! We need to find...
(Cut to reveal she is playing a Ducky Momo themed game.)
Candace (cont'd): ...the Bridge across the Dumbledown River before that stupid gopher!
Stacy: (on laptop) I got your back, girl! Coin!
Candace: I'm on it!
Stacy: C'mon! C'mon! (Ducky Momo retrieves the coin) Nice! You did it, Candace!
Candace: Yes! Third on the leaderboard, baby! That digital Ducky Momo trophy...will...be...mine!
Stacy: Ours.
Candace: Ours.
Linda: (walking in with a piece of paper) Candace, oh, good, you're up. You'll have plenty of time to tackle the list of chores that you let pile up.
Candace: But, Mom, Stacy and I are this close to kicking leaderboard butt in Ducky Momo's Golden Quest!
Linda: Well, your chores better be done before I get back from running my errands.
Candace: No problemo, Mom! You're lookin' at the queen of mul...ti...tas...king!
Linda: Just make sure you hit the whole list, Your Majesty. (leaves) See ya later.
Candace: 'Kay! (back on laptop) Ooh! Ooh! Squirrel bandits!
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb outside sitting under their tree as usual. There is a long awkward period of silence until Ferb moves his eyes.)
Phineas: Ha! You lose, bro! Eye shifts count! Ya moved!
(Baljeet and Buford come in. Baljeet is wearing a spinning model of the solar system on his head.)
Baljeet: Actually, you did, too. Since our planet's orbit of speed around the sun is 67,000 miles per hour and you are on its surface and speeding around the sun as well. (Buford spins the hat on Baljeet's head.) Quit it!
Phineas: Cool hat, Baljeet!
Baljeet: Thank you! I got it at Astro Camp today. (Buford spins it again.) Quit turbocharging the little speed of my solar system!
Buford: What? I'm racin' 'em against each other. (Spins it again.)
Phineas: That's it! I know what we're gonna do today!
Buford: Smack Baljeet's head around?
Phineas: No! We're gonna build a solar system and race the planets!
Buford: Only if I can smack around Baljeet's hat!
Baljeet: Hey, where is Perry?
(Cut to Perry on the roof. His theme music is heard and then he does a little dance down the chimney and comes out dirty with a chimney sweeping brush like in Mary Poppins.)
(Cut to Agent P's lair. Monogram is on screen giving a speech of some sort.)
Major Monogram: Only you can make the decision to succeed. You've got to dig down deep within yourself and grab ahold of your dream! (pause) Go ahead. Grab it. (beat) I'll wait. (Agent P drops in.) Oh, Agent P! Uh, I've been giving a motivational speech to the interns, and, uh, by "interns", I mean Carl.
Carl: (offscreen) Very inspirational, sir.
Major Monogram: Anyway, Doofenshmirtz has rented out a conference hall at the Danville Motel Inn and is giving some kind of motivational lecture. Who would want motivation from him is beyond me, but, well, that's beside the point. Pick up your credentials at the front desk. (Perry the Chimneypus salutes.) Good luck, Agent P! (Perry's chair lowers back and is launched from it by a spring.)
(Cut to the hallway. Candace walks in with her chores strapped to her head and her laptop strapped onto her chest.)
Candace: I'm all hooked up and ready to multitask. First on the list, wash dishes. (She dusts the table while walking. Sidenote: Don't try this at home.) Now where did we leave off?
Stacy: (on laptop) I think we were headed into the forest with the Grizzly King. Are you sure you don't wanna wait until you finished your chores?
Candace: Oh, please, Stacy, I've got everything under control. Let's tackle the mountain kings vicious!
(Cut to the house, which has a huge beam in the backyard. Zoom out to reveal a giant solar system model attached to it.)
Isabella: (offscreen) Hey, Phineas, whatcha doin'?
(Cut to the backyard.)
Phineas: Ferb and I were just headin' up to our solar system speedway. We're gonna have a planet race.
Isabella: Cool!
(They go up the elevator.)
Phineas: The first one to complete 50 laps around the sun wins the Galaxy 5000! Technically, it should be "The Galaxy 50", but, y'know, "The Galaxy 5000" sounds so much cooler. (Cut to the top level, where Irving is seen at the control panel.) Ferb is racing Mercury, the closest planet to the sun. (Ferb puts on his helmet and gives a thumbs-up and gets sucked up a tube into his racing planet.) I'm racing Mars. I saved Venus for you.
Isabella: Aw, because Venus is the goddess of love?
Phineas: (shrugs) Actually, I didn't even think of that. But sure. (Phineas and Isabella put on their helmets and get sucked up the tubes.)
Irving: Alright, racers, status check!
Baljeet: Saturn, check!
Buford: Oo-ran-ohs, check!
Baljeet: Buford, that is not how it is pronounced!
Buford: It is on this channel!
Irving: Venus?
Isabella: Intergalactic Planetary Racing Patch, check!
Irving: Mars?
Phineas: All ready!
(Whip pan to reveal the other racers.)
Irving: Earth?
Jenny: Earth is ready to go!
Irving: Neptune?
Balthazar: Check!
Irving: Jupiter?
Django: Check!
Albert: Pluto is go!
Irving: Albert?! What are you doing here?! Pluto isn't even a planet!
Albert: That is still in dispute.
Irving: Racers, start your planets!
(The sun turns red, then yellow, then green.)
Irving: What a break! Earth is in the lead, with Jupiter and Neptune rushing up to the challenge, but they take each other out! The Fireside Girls maintain their lead!
(Cut to Candace multitasking at the kitchen sink.)
Candace: Watch out for the fiery falling marshmallows, Stace!
Stacy: (on laptop) I'll turn them into s'mores with my super sugar squeal! Bye bye, Wonder Kid!
Candace: Okay, I'll go collect the coins in the Cocoa Campground. Now to get the laundry started!
(Cut to the sink to reveal that Candace forgot to turn it off.)
(Cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz motivational seminar ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Welcome, you lucky people in attendance, I am Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz and I'm here to introduce you to my eight-step program to ruling the Tri-State Area! I- I mean overcoming obstacles and a path self-fulfillment. Heh, heh! Right! Nothing evil there. Anyhoo, behold, the Inator Method! Hit it, Norm!
(Cut to Norm behind a merchandise counter playing an acoustic guitar.)
(Song: The Inator Method)
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Maybe you're a loser who's been sleeping in his car, ♪
♪ Or a crazy person saving all their toenails in a jar. (Nice!) ♪
♪ There may be many reasons you can count yourself subpar, ♪
♪ But the biggest one is you've signed up for this here seminar. ♪
♪ But I'm the guy who'll give you all the answers ♪
♪ Sit back, relax, and I will cue my backup dancers. ♪
Backup dancers: ♪ The inator Method! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ It's the method with all the solutions... ♪
Backup dancers: ♪ The inator Method! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ This is the one! Don't accept substitutions! ♪
Backup dancers: ♪ The Inator Method! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Soon you'll see that the only conclusion is to... ♪
Doofenshmirtz and Backup Dancers: ♪ Follow those impulsive urges, ♪
♪ You'll know that you'll want to purchase now! ♪
♪ The Inator Method! ♪
(Cheers, applause, and whistles)
Doofenshmirtz: That's what I'm talkin' about! Yeah! (Agent P drops in) P-Perry the Platypus, whatta you doin' here? Y-You're not s'posed to be here 'til step 3. (to audience) You have to excuse me while I confer with my visual aid. (to Perry) I'm on stage, so I'm gonna have to forego the long backstory. Suffice it to say, there was a judge's ruling involved, okay? Anyway, just take a seat in the back and I'll cue you when you're on. (Perry exits) Perry the Platypus, ladies and gentlemen! You'll be seeing more of him later during the nemesis portion of the seminar.
(Cut to Candace at the washing machine.)
Candace: Oh, sweet! We made it to the golden key of Crumblebum Dwarfs!
Stacy: (on laptop) Candace, it's the gopher!
Candace: (not paying attention to how much detergent she's putting in) I'll put a stop to you, you gold key-swipin' gopher!
Stacy: (on laptop) Just get the key! Oh, man!
Candace: Aw, stupid gopher!
Stacy: Now we're back to third place!
Candace: Ugh! I guess we'll just have to get him on the next level. (looks at detergent) Did I put the..? (shrugs) Hmm. (puts in the last of the detergent) Better clean than dirty. (Closes the lid and turns the washing machine on.) I'm one totally focused multitasking genius!
(As soon as Candace leaves, loads of suds emerge from the washing machine.)
(Cut back to the race.)
Irving: It's a virtual dead-heat with the planetary trine between Mercury, Mars and Venus! Phineas is out in front by a pointed nose! But check out the cool inverted move from Ferb! Watch out, boys! Venus is risin' fast!
Ferb: She went intra-Venus right between us.
(Cut back to the seminar.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, so now that we got the basics covered, we can get to the fun part. Let's start with trapping your nemesis. (Cut to Perry with a nametag lanyard on taking notes. He gets trapped by the lanyard.) Nametag, you're it!
Perry: (chatters angrily)
Doofenshmirtz: The keys to a good trap are the element of surprise and, also, if you can work in a good pun . That's always nice.
Billy: Uh, what about constraint and effectiveness?
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, yeah, th-that'll be covered in the thwarting portion of our seminar. Don't...Don't get ahead of yourself. Okay, step four is the big reveal! (Takes tarp off his inator.) Behold: the Motivate-inator! (The screen behind him says "Music Sting", which plays.) The music sting. That totally ups the drama. So what does it do? I'm glad you asked! You, come on up here, I'll sh-I'll show ya. Let's give him a big hand for being such a sport, shall we? (The dude that asked the question in the audience comes up to applause.) Alright, what's your name?
Billy: Billy.
Doofenshmirtz: (shakes Billy's hand) Great to meet ya, Billy! Tell me, (motions toward the back of the room) whadaya see over there in the back of the room?
(Whip pan to Norm behind the merchandise counter waving.)
Billy: Uh...I dunno, a table full of stuff?
Doofenshmirtz: Did everyone take note of his reply? (walks behind the inator) Totally lackluster. But that's all gonna change. Okay, Billy, now hold still. (Fires the inator on Billy) Now whadaya see, Billy?
Billy: (excitedly gasps) Inator Method merchandise! (runs up to the counter and purchases practically everything) Tapes, DVDs, books, audiobooks, now! Now! T-shirts, hats, that is so cool! I gotta have 'em!
Doofenshmirtz: Now look at him! All full of pep! He's completely motivated!
Man #1: (speaking in a female voice) Wait a second! He's just motivated to buy your junk! This is nothin' but a money-makin' scam!
Doofenshmirtz: Exactly, what better motivation is there? (zaps the entire audience and they storm the merchandise counter)
(Cut to Candace vacuuming and still playing her game.)
Candace: Nice work, Stace! That last mega-wallow in the Razzleberry Swamp puts us back in second place. (lets go of the vacuum, which attempts to suck the rug right up)
Stacy: (on laptop) What?! I can barely hear you over the vacuum!
Candace: Oh, hang on. (leaves the room and the vacuum still on) Is that better?
(Cut back to the seminar. One of the attendees is about to be videotaped.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Testimonials, take one.
Man #3: I came to this seminar with no intention of buying anything and look at all this junk I bought!
Man #4: Holy cow, I bought a lotta stuff I don't need!
Margaret: I just can't stop spending money on the Inator Method's motivational products!
Doofenshmirtz: Woohoo! With all the cash I'm raking in, I'll be able to take over the Tri-State Area in no time! (A woman gives him a book, which he signs.) Thank you very much. Nice doin' business with ya.
(Cut to Perry on the ground. During the following, he gets up and struggles to get out of his trap.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) And who do I make this out to?
Man #5: (offscreen) Uncle Phil.
Doofenshmirtz: "To Uncle Phil, I'm wishing you the worst. Dr. Heinz Doofen—" Ow! (He gets kicked by Perry.)
(Cut to Candace's laptop.)
Candace: (offscreen) This is it, Stace! The Golden Treasure of Utter Momosity! Oh, no, you don't! Leap of doom!
Candace and Stacy: (Cheer)
Candace: Woohoo! We did it! (A digital trophy appears onscreen.) Oh, it's so beautiful!
(Song: Awesome)
♪ Awesome Awesome Awesome! ♪
♪ Awesome Awesome Awesome! ♪
Number one in the Momo Realm! (sees a planet speeding out the window) With time to spare for an astronomical bust!
(Cut back to the race)
Irving: Buford is in the lead with Baljeet close behind!
Baljeet: Ha ha! I am going to run rings around you, Ice Giant!
Buford: Bring it on, dweeb!
Baljeet: Eat my dust, Buford!
(Saturn bumps Uranus out of the frame.)
Irving: Ooh! The silent-but-deadly planet has left for parts unknown! (A horn is sounded and a robotic arm waves a checkered flag.) And Baljeet wins a digital trophy!
Baljeet: Victory!
(Cut back to the seminar, where Perry is fighting with Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, hold still so I can throw the book at ya! (Perry throws one at him) Ow! (The book hits the inator, which, as always, zaps out the window and hits an unsuspecting driver, who stops outside the backyard and sees the solar system.)
(Cut to the backyard.)
Phineas: Great race, Baljeet!
Trucker: 'Scuse me, I don't normally run into strangers' backyards, but I'm inexplicably motivated to buy your solar system racetrack. How much?
Buford: Five bucks.
Trucker: Sold!
(Cut to Linda coming in the house holding groceries.)
Linda: I'm home! How did you do on that lis—Oh! (gets grabbed by Candace)
Candace: Mom Mom Mom, you gotta see what Phineas and Ferb built in the backyard!
(Cut to the living room with the still functioning vacuum.)
Linda: Candace, the living room!
Candace: (pushes her mother out) I know! I vacuumed!
(Cut to the garage, which is now full of suds.)
Candace: (offscreen) C'mon! C'mon!
Linda: But the laundry!
Candace: (keeps pushing her mother) I know! I just have to fold it!
(Cut to the still running kitchen sink.)
Linda: The dishes?
Candace: All done and ready to be put away! (With her eyes closed) Look!
Phineas: Hi, Mom! Hi, Candace!
Linda: Hi, kids. Well, at least the backyard isn't a mess.
Candace: What?!
Linda: Come on, Candace, (walks back inside) you have a lot of cleaning up to do.
Candace: But...but but but...
Phineas: Well, that was a lot of interplanetary fun!
Buford: Plus, we made five bucks!
Baljeet: We should put that in the bank.
Buford: At 1% interest?! Are you kiddin'?!
(Cut back to the seminar. Perry drops down onto the inator and pushes the self-destruct button with his foot.)
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Noooooo!!!! Ah, man! Now I'm gonna have to use the money I made for repairs and medical bills.
(The attendees all gather and complain to Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: Now, now, now, wai-wait! (He walks out the building and looks both directions. He then runs and screams as the planetary race track goes by.) AAAaaah!!! Curse you, Perry the Platypus!!!

End Credits
(Song: The Inator Method)
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Maybe you're a loser who's been sleeping in his car, ♪
♪ Or a crazy person saving all their toenails in a jar. (Nice!) ♪
♪ There may be many reasons you can count yourself subpar, ♪
♪ But the biggest one is you've signed up for this here seminar. ♪
♪ But I'm the guy who'll give you all the answers ♪
♪ Sit back, relax, and I will cue my backup dancers. ♪
Backup dancers: ♪ The inator Method! ♪



Contents[show]
Act I
(Saul Bass-style opening credits roll.)
(Scene opens on the Flynn-Fletcher house at sunset. POV tracking shot from someone walking. We hear footsteps as the camera walks toward the backyard fence. The cameraman opens the door to reveal Phineas and Ferb at work on something. Zoom in closer to Phineas.)
Phineas: (gasps)
(Cut to reveal Isabella at the gate.)
Isabella: Whatcha doin'?
Phineas: Oh, hi, Isabella. We were just building a polymer de-stabilizer for the binding catalyst of the—
Isabella: That's great, Phineas. Listen, uh, there's something I wanna tell you.
Phineas: Okay.
Isabella: Uh, it's about this patch.
Phineas: Oh, it's one of your accomplishment patches.
Isabella: Yeah, but...it's an Emotional Bravery Patch that I can only earn by walking up to somebody I—
Ferb: (clears his throat offscreen)
Phineas: Nice, Ferb! You found the new power supply!
Isabella: Um, Phineas? I, uh—
(Enter Buford and Baljeet.)
Buford: Hey, what's shakin', bacon?
Baljeet: You do realize that bacon does not shake.
Buford: Sir Francis Bacon?
Baljeet: I stand corrected.
Phineas: We're building a rubberization ray to give our skin rubber-like qualities. C'mon! We'll show you!
Isabella: (sighs, to herself) So you see, Phineas, I can only earn the patch by walking up to someone I care about and telling them face-to-face that I've got a huge crush on you.
(Cut to Phineas and the gang at the machine.)
Phineas: Remember how much fun it was to bounce around the world on a rubber ball?
Baljeet: If not a bit nauseating.
Buford: That was the fun part!
Phineas: So, how awesome would it be to actually be a rubber ball?
Buford: I'm in! Can we shoot Perry with it and bounce him around the backyard like a plat-a-ball?
Phineas: Um, no. But where is Perry?
(Cut to Perry entering his lair through the air conditioner. He approaches the screen to see Monogram in a hot tub.)
♪ Doo be doo be doo bah ♪
♪ Doo be doo be doo bah ♪
Major Monogram: Ah, Agent P, I see you found the new central air conditioning entrance.
Perry: (Chatters angrily)
Major Monogram: What? Oh, the hot tub. Purely therapeutic. The bubbles work wonders on a bad back. (The bubbles stop) Carl!
Carl: (exhales) I'm a little lightheaded, sir. Can I take a break?
Major Monogram: What am I not paying you for?!
Carl: Yes, sir. (inhales)
(The bubbles resume)
Major Monogram: Anyhoo, today's the unveiling of Danville's new water tower. Mayor Doofenshmirtz is going to be dedicating it tonight at his press conference. We're fairly certain that Doof'll attempt to disrupt the event in some way. Not only is it high profile, but, since it's right next door to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, it's also extremely convenient. So get out there and stop him from doing whatever it is he is gonna... (the bubbles stop again) Carl! Bubbles!
Carl: (offscreen) Yes, sir. (groans and faints)
Major Monogram: Fine. You've got five minutes.

Act II
(Scene opens on the Super Duper Mega Superstore.)
Candace: (offscreen) Ooh, Stacy, the new issue of Blasé Teen is out.
(Cut to inside to reveal Candace reading a magazine and talking on her cell phone.)
Candace: You should see the models in these spreads. So indifferent. So uninterested. So cool! (puts magazine back on rack) I wonder if you and I will ever be this cool. What are you doing, Stacy?
(Cut to Stacy in her living room working on her television.)
Stacy: I'm trying to hook up this super-high-def-intelligent-multi-format-entertainment-DVR system. I wanna keep the DVD and the VCR but I don't think there are enough holes. I mean, there's also a pretty serious clicker situation.
(Cut to see what Stacy is talking about: a large pile of confusing-looking wires and outlets, as well as at least a dozen remote controls.)
(Cut back to Candace.)
Candace: Well, I'm no help to you there. Talk to you later, Stace. Good luck. (hangs up and looks at the magazine again) I wish I knew a girl like this so I could hang out and absorb her coolness. (She puts the magazine down to see Vanessa making the same pose as the model in the magazine.) (gasps) Vanessa! Hey, Vanessa! Vanessa! Hey! Hey!
Vanessa: Oh, hey, Candace.
Candace: So, uh, doin' some shoppin'? I mean, duh! Of course, you're shopping. You've got the items in the little basket thingy. You placed them in there with the intent to— Stop, Candace.
Vanessa: Yeah, I'm just buyin' some snacks. Some of the girls are coming over later for a movie night. Should be cool.
Candace: (excitedly) Wow! That sounds incredibly awesomely— (indifferently) Yeah. Cool. Whatevs.
Vanessa: You wanna come?
Candace: Y'know, lemme just call my mom. I'd tell her I'd get those squirrels out of the— (Vanessa leaves) Oh, oh, we're going now. (Candace follows her.)
(Cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Perry hang-glides onto the balcony. He walks around and gets trapped in a disco ball. Norm picks up the trapped platypus and hangs him onto a wire where the ball rotates around and he dances with Doof.)
(Song: Disco Miniature Golfing Queen (instrumental))
Doofenshmirtz: Woohoo! Time to boogie, baby! Whoo! Whoo! My hustle's out of muscle but I can still shake my brick house or whatever the kids are calling it these days. (a kitchen timer dings) Norm, get the doonkelberry pie out of the oven, wouldja?
Norm: You got it, sir!
Doofenshmirtz: (turns the music off) Vanessa's having some friends over for a little get-together, but I digress. Behold! The Repulse-inator! Whoever I hit with this inator will automatically become repulsive. (pushes the inator closer to the edge of the balcony) And, wouldn't you know it, my brother, Roger, is dedicating a new Danville water tower right below my ledge! Once he's hit by a beam from this baby, he'll become so abominable, so disgusting, so hideous, so noxious, so grotesque, (cut to reveal Doof reading from a thesaurus) so ghastly... Uh, anyway, Roger will become so repulsive that his popularity will plunge and mine will skyrocket by comparison, facilitating moi to take over the entire Tri-State Area! (Perry gives him a look) Don't look at me like that! I gotta good feeling about today! It's gonna happen. The only trouble with it is that this particular inator requires a lot more power than any other inator I've created for some bizarre reason. And, uh, I only have one functioning wall outlet in the lab. (cut to reveal the wall outlet overloaded with electrical wires and things) So, I'm gonna put a lot of strain on that.
Norm: Your pie, sir.
Doofenshmirtz: Thank you, Norm. Owwww!! Ow! This is hot!
Norm: Oops. Sorry, sir.
Doofenshmirtz: Did that just come right out of the oven?
Norm: (offscreen) Well, my hands are metal.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, now, mine are bacon, apparently. (shakes his hands) Look, I'm shakin' bacon! You like that? It's a callback to something I didn't even hear! In your face, logic!
Norm: Here's a potholder, sir.
Doofenshmirtz: Thank you. (to Perry) I'm gonna take this downstairs to Vanessa. Party on, Perry the Platypus! (he flips the switch and the music and disco lights resume)
(Cut to the backyard.)
Phineas: Ready, Baljeet?
Baljeet: Okay! (he gets zapped) Wuh! I still feel the same.
Phineas: Try jumping up and down a little bit.
(Baljeet jumps and bounces.)
(Song: Quirky Worky Song)
(When Baljeet hits a branch, the music skips like a record player.)
Buford: Oh oh! Now me! (he gets zapped) Woohoo! Awesome!
Phineas: Me, next! (He gets zapped.) C'mon, Isabella!
(Ferb gets zapped.)
Isabella: Hit me with your bounce shot! (She gets zapped.)
(Phineas and the gang bounce out of the backyard and around the neighborhood. They bounce over the Googleplex Mall.)
Phineas: All right!
(They bounce over a "Take a Vacation!" billboard. They bounce into the Danville Kangaroo Ranch and bounce with the kangaroos. They bounce into the clouds. They bounce into some building windows, which make pinball noises. Cut to Isabella bouncing alone. She bounces into a bookstore sign and past the Fireside Girls Annex. She bounces backwards towards the Fireside Girls Annex. Cut to inside the annex.)
Gretchen: (to Adyson) Isabella said she'd be here, so she'll be here.
(Isabella bounces up to the window and taps on it.)
Holly: I bet you all the muffins that wherever she is, it has somethin' to do with Phineas.
Isabella: Girls! (taps again)
(Gretchen gets off the couch and opens the window.)
Isabella: Hi, Gretch!
Gretchen: Where've you been?
Isabella: I was over at Phineas' house and was rubberized by a machine they built.
Gretchen: Holly gets the muffins!
Isabella: Look, you know that Emotional Bravery Patch I was all set to earn?
Gretchen: Yeah.
Isabella: Well, I'm totally blowing it! I feel strong when I walk up to Phineas, but as soon as I open my mouth, I completely choke!
Gretchen: Oh, Isabella, you're overthinking it!
(Song: Jump Right to It)
Gretchen: ♪ You better jump right to it, ♪
♪ Tell that boy how you feel. ♪
♪ Just get out there and do it, ♪
♪ It's not such a big deal. ♪
Gretchen and the Fireside Girls: ♪ You've been waitin' all summer ♪
♪ Now it's time to reveal ♪
♪ You better jump, jump, ♪
♪ Jump right to it. ♪
Gretchen: ♪ You've gotta step right up ♪
♪ You know he thinks that you're cute, ♪
♪ C'mon and bounce right up ♪
♪ Get off your patoot. ♪
Gretchen and the Fireside Girls: ♪ This isn't the time ♪
♪ To be shy, coy, or cute. ♪
♪ You better jump, jump, ♪
♪ Jump right to it. ♪
Ginger: ♪ Why you waiting, Isabella? ♪
♪ Why hesitating? He could be your fella. ♪
♪ It's been your predilection ♪
♪ To move in the direction ♪
♪ Away from the romantic ♪
♪ And into the semantic. ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ So it makes us somewhat frantic. ♪
Gretchen: ♪ Go on and get it, ♪
♪ 'Cause you're a real catch. ♪
♪ Hold your head high ♪
Ginger: ♪ You can earn a new patch. ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ All summer long, ♪
♪ You sing the same tired song. ♪
♪ You better jump, jump, ♪
♪ Jump right to it. ♪
♪ You better jump, jump, ♪
♪ Jump right to it! ♪
Isabella: You're right! I should tell Phineas how I feel! Later, girls! Gotta bounce! (jumps out the window and bounces back up) Literally!
(Cut to D.E.I. at night.)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Teenage Girl Movie Night ♪
(Cut to the living room where Vanessa and her friends are hanging out with Candace.)
Vanessa: So I thought we could watch this foreign art film I found. Le Coeur Noir De Douleur et de la Tristesse Douce.
Dana: Is that the one that's the neo-realistic portrayal of women's angst?
Heather: No, that's the other one. This one is about ennui.
Candace: Don't know if I've seen that one. Is it animated?
Lacie: So, Janice...
Candace: Candace.
Lacie: Nice black nail polish. And only on one finger? Rad.
Candace: Oh, it's actually a bruise. (chuckles) I slammed it in a drawer. Yeah, I think it's probably gonna fall off soon.
Birgitte: Did you download the new Young Apparatus album?
Lacie: No way. They're sellouts. I'm only listening to Coffin Shadows now. They're so independent, they pay you to download their songs.
Candace: Hmm. Coffin Shadows? I've never heard of them.
Lacie: New skirt?
Birgitte: Yeah, I turned it inside out, ripped it in half and then sewed it back together.
Lacie: Get your brother to drive over it a few times. It really weathers it.
Candace: (chuckles) Wow! You guys know everything.
(knock on door. Cut to Doof in the door with pie.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hello, ladies! I'm here with homemade doonkelberry pie!
Vanessa: Dad, I thought you were going to stay upstairs! I've got the snacks covered.
Doofenshmirtz: But, pookie, I thought you loved the doonkel-boonkel.
Vanessa: (takes the pie) Yes, I do love it and thank you, but (closes the door on him) please, Dad.
Doofenshmirtz: A-Are you watchin' foreign films?
Vanessa: Dad!
Doofenshmirtz: Maybe-Maybe I could join you guys for a lively discussion.
Vanessa: Goodbye, Dad.
Doofenshmirtz: Y'know, I-I-I-I can't stay anyway. As we speak, my nemesis is upstairs trying to work free from a trap that... So even if...if you wanted me to stay, I, uh... (she shuts the door on him) Bye.
(Cut to Candace dialing her phone in the bathroom.)
Candace: Stacy, this is amazing! I'm at an actual party with cool older girls! They know everything! They're so AHHHH! They're awesome! You've gotta get over here.
(Cut to Stacy in her living room.)
Stacy: Candace, I am so proud of myself! I think I totally hooked this thing up! It's incredible! It has picture-in-picture-in-picture! I'll be able to watch a show and then another show inside that show and then the first show again inside that one! And I managed to get it down to one clicker! I'm about to give it a whirl! (She points and clicks, but it turns off and on the TV of a neighbor's house behind her.) Hmm. (The neighbor behind her gets up and sees his TV turn on and off again in frustration.) Okay. Maybe there's still a bug or two to fix.
(Cut to D.E.I. upstairs. The disco music is still playing.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, party's over, Perry the Platy—
(Perry, already escaped from his trap, pounces on Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ow! Oh! Ah, man! Ah! Uh, not to be high-maintenance or anything, but d-do you mind we could fight a little quieter? Uh, the girls are watching a movie and I don't wanna dis— I didn't mean you to walk away. (Perry comes back with pillows.) I mean we could continue to fight. It's just they're so— (Perry whacks him with a pillow) A pillow fight! Perfect! It's violent and quiet! It is on!
(Music: The Blue Danube by Johann Strauss)
(They resume their pillow fight.)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, come on! Do I get to land one or not? (Perry hits him in the face with a pillow.) I take that as a no? (Perry flings Doof and he hits a wall. Doof spits out some feathers.) Talk about "down in the mouth". Get it? It's, uh... Ah, whatever. Meet my friends, (holds up couch cushions) Poly and Ester! (He throws "Poly" over at Perry.)
(Music: Flight of the Bumblebee by Rimsky-Korsakov)
("Poly" hits the fire button on the inator.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) Uh-oh! I think it's overheating!
(The inator powers up and fires.)
(Cut to in front of the Danville Water Tower where Roger is giving his speech.)
Roger: The dedication—
(Roger gets zapped by the inator beam and begins to grotesquely transform. He faints from behind the podium. Cut back to Doof on the balcony.)
Doofenshmirtz: Run! It's gonna blow!
(Perry runs away but gets trapped inside a cage, which gets covered by an anvil and a box of bowling balls.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ha! Trapped ya! You'll fall for anything, Perry the Platypus! (mockingly) "It's gonna blow!" (normal voice) As if, as if I would know ahead of time when something's going to—
(KABOOM!!!)
Doofenshmirtz: That was purely coincidental. But, hey! I hit Roger! Oh, he's gonna be repulsive now!
(Cut to the podium to reveal Roger now transformed into a zombie-like duplicate of his brother.)
Doof zombie (Roger): (groans)
(The spectators scream and flee.)
(Cut back to Doof, who is now upset by this turn of events)
Doofenshmirtz: (angrily) I get it. Repulsive. I see. That's just the universe making a joke at my expense!
Busty Woman: (gasps) What happened to Mayor Doofenshmirtz?!
Doof zombie (Roger): Lots of me...
(The Doof zombie grabs Melanie's arms and she also transforms into a Doof zombie.)
Doof zombie (Melanie): Lots of me...
Doof zombies: Lots of me...
(The Doof zombies touch a woman and a man and they transform.)
Man 1: No no no! Aaaaah!
Doof zombies: Lots of me... Lots of me... Lots of me....

Act III
(Open on a dark alley where Phineas and the gang are still bouncing.)
Phineas: Woohoo!
Isabella: Phineas! Hey, Phineas, I need to talk to you!
Phineas: Okay.
Isabella: No, (stops him from bouncing) I really need to talk to you and I'm just gonna jump right to it! The thing about that Emotional Bravery Patch is that I need to tell you...
Mrs. Feyersied: (offscreen) No! No! No! Get away! Aaah!
Isabella: Mrs. Feyersied? (to Phineas) One second please. (Isabella runs over, lifts up her belt and instantly changes into her Fireside Girl uniform.) Good evening, ma'am. Fireside Girl Isabella Garcia-Shapiro Troop 46231. What's the emergency?
Mrs. Feyersied: Pharmacists! Pharmacists!!!
(Mrs. Feyersied runs away, followed by other Danvillians fleeing in terror.)
Isabella: What does that even mean?
(Cut to Phineas bouncing alone joined by the other boys.)
Phineas: What's everybody running from?
Baljeet: Uh, perhaps that?
(Whip pan right to reveal Irving alone filming something.)
Phineas: (offscreen) Irving?
Irving: Hi, guys!
Baljeet: (offscreen) No, that! Over there!
(Whip pan left to reveal dozens of Doof zombies stalking rampant and transforming everyone they bump into.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me... Lots of me...
(Mrs. Garcia-Shapiro and the inexplicable Giant Floating Baby Head get touched and transform.)
Buford: Well, that sure wiggles my biscuits.
Phineas, Buford and Baljeet: Run!!!
(They run away and lean against a brick wall.)
Buford: What was that?!
Phineas: It's...some kind of pharmacist! And if he touches you, you turn into a pharmacist, too!
Buford: I can't be a pharmacist! I know nothing about pharmaceuticals!
Baljeet: Then we gotta make sure those things never touch us!
Doof zombie: (touches Baljeet) Lots of me...
(The boys scream and run away. Buford picks Phineas up with the intention of using him as a living shield. Baljeet runs away from the zombie, somehow unaffected.)
Buford: Stay back! You're infected!
Phineas: Buford, put me down!
Baljeet: I...I am okay! Really!
Buford: (puts Phineas down) Why are you okay?
Baljeet: I do not know!
Ferb: Perhaps our rubberized skin might be acting as an insulator.
Phineas: Of course! The contagion must be transmitted by electrostatic charge!
Doof zombies: Lots of me... Lots of me..., etc.
(The gang screams.)
Phineas: Let's bounce, guys! (They bounce away. Phineas comes back down.) Literally. (He bounces back up.)
Baljeet: How long is the rubberization effect supposed to last?
Phineas: Not much longer!
Buford: I wanna recharge!
Phineas: Good idea! Let's get back to the backyard and re-rubberize!
(Cut to D.E.I. We hear the news on television. Cut to inside to reveal Doof watching the news.)
Gordon Gutsofanemu: Good evening, I'm Gordon Gutsofanemu with a special report. The Tri-State Area is in chaos tonight as thousands of repulsive mindless pharmacists run rampant all over Danville!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, there they go with the whole "pharmacist" thing again! I-I should become one, that-that would show 'em! I should become a pharmacist!
Gordon Gutsofanemu: We now go live on the scene with our own Action News reporter, Don Adaded. Don?
Don Adaded: Thanks, Gordon. I'm standing here in downtown Danville. It's an unbelievable scene. Pharmacists touching people who turn into pharmacists. Ah, here's one of them now. Mr. Mindless Repulsive Pharmacist, care to comment?
Doof zombie: Lots of me... (touches Don)
Don Adaded: And there you have it, folks. I'm...
(Don gets transformed.)
Doof zombie (Don Adaded): Lots of me...
Gordon Gutsofanemu: (clearly frightened) Thanks...Don. L-Let's go to the weather.
Doof zombie (Weatherman): Lots of me...let's go to traffic...
(Cut to the chopper.)
Doof zombie (pilot): Lots of me...
Doof zombie (co-pilot): Back to you, Gordon...
Doof zombie (Gordon Gutsofanemu): Lots of me...
(Cut back to Doof's lab.)
Doofenshmirtz: I don't believe it! An entire army of mes! Heh heh! (runs to the elevator) Oh! For once, I'll actually be able to take over the Tri-State Area 'cause I'll have, you know, the volume. Ciao, baby!
(Song: Army of Me)
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ Who's that guy with the lab coat on? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I wonder who.
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ Who's that guy with the vacant expression? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I'll never tell.
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ It's not a conclusion that it's so forgone. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Okay, it's me, ♪
♪ And me, ♪
♪ And me, ♪
♪ And also me! ♪
Over there, that's me, too.
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ Who's that guy with the jutting jaw? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, baby!
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ Who's that guy with the receding forehead? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Hey!
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ Who's that guy living outside of the law? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Oh, that's me, ♪
♪ And me, ♪
♪ And me, ♪
♪ And also me! ♪
♪ Get out of my way, ♪
♪ 'Cause anyone can see, ♪
♪ I'm about to settle down for some serious me-time! ♪
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ If you painted his picture, ♪
♪ It would have to be a mural. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ 'Cause I'm tellin' you now, ♪
♪ I've never been so plural! ♪
Doofenshmirtz and the Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ Look outside, you're bound to see ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ An army of me! ♪
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ An army of him. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ An army of me! ♪
I'm ubiquitous, really, I'm everywhere!
♪ An army of me! ♪
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ An army of him. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ A whole army of me! ♪
Doof zombie (female singer): ♪ Ah-dah, doo'n dah'n dah wow! ♪
(Cut to City Hall.)
Doofenshmirtz: Bingo! City Hall! The first step of my conquest to the Tri-State Area! No longer will I be made fun of by small children and their silly jokes that mock me! Like, "Knock knock!" "Who's there?" "Doofus in a lab coat!" "Doofus in a lab coat who?" And then they hold up a mirror. That-That's not even a punchline! It's just—Uh, nevermind. They will all soon learn to fear the name of Dr. Heinz Doofenshm— (The Doof zombies walk away.) Hey, come back here! You guys are my army!
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house. Phineas and the boys bounce into the backyard.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me...,etc.
Phineas: Hurry! We're losing our bounce!
(Cut to the backyard to reveal a Doof zombie destroying the rubberization machine.)
Baljeet: Oh no! The pharmacists trashed the machine! Can we rebuild it?
Phineas: We can try, but we should do it inside. There's too many pharmacists out here. Our rubberization is fading fast.
Buford: (attempts to bounce but falls) I DIDN'T BOUNCE!!! AAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHH!!!!
(They walk into the living room and follow Buford screaming.)
Phineas: (closing the sliding door) Okay. We gotta get started on another rubberization ray.
Buford: (runs and screams)
Phineas: Right after we calm down Buford.
(Cut to Stacy in her living room reconfiguring her television set. She turns it on successfully.)
Stacy: Yes! Next, popcorn.
(She walks into the other room while the TV shows a Doof zombie in the newsroom.)
Doof zombie: Lots of me... Lots of me...,etc.
(Stacy walks back into the room and switches to her DVD screen.)
Stacy: And so begins The Grievance movie marathon. Special edition box set. Oh, yeah. "Hey, Stacy, didja hook up that whole system by yourself?" "Yeah, no biggie. Do it all the time." Heh heh. I rule.
(Cut to the D.E.I. living room where Candace, Vanessa and the girls are watching the French film.)
Candace: So this is a French film subtitled in Spanish. Why is that lady wearing a goat head?
Birgitte: Art isn't art unless it's difficult.
Candace: Mmm-hmm.
(A banging on the door is heard. Lacie walks up to the peephole and sees a Doof zombie behind it.)
Doof zombie: (growls)
Lacie: Hey, Vanessa? Your dad's at the door.
Vanessa: Ugh! It's okay, don't pause it. (She opens the door to reveal three Doof zombies behind it.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me... Lots of me... Lots of me...,etc.
Vanessa: Okay. (closes door) Something's weird here, because I know I only have one of those. Lemme call him and see what's up. Hmm. Voicemail. Odd. Dad, your weird clone-thingies are down here. Could you please just—
(A Doof zombie bursts his arms through the door.)
Vanessa: Aaaaaahh!!
Doof zombies: Lots of me... Lots of me... Lots of me...,etc.
Punk girls: Aaaaaaahhh!!! (they run away)
Vanessa: Come on, Candace! Come on, come on! Get in! (they run into her bedroom and close the door) Okay, that's really wrong. Even by my dad's standards.
Dana: Check it out! (looks at her phone) It's all over the web! This isn't just going on in this building. They're all over town and according to this, if one touches you, you become one of them!
Punk Girls: Ewwww!
Lacie: We're doomed!
Candace: What's the big deal? I see weird stuff like this all the time.
Birgitte: I want my mommy!
Lacie: Life's gonna end and I'm wearing a fake tattoo!
Heather: Someone's gotta help us! I mean, we're in danger!
Candace: (through the side of her mouth) What a bunch of babies. (gasps) Wait a minute! Weird situation plus danger equals Phineas and Ferb! Okay, calm down. I'm on it! (dials her phone) Mom? Mom, I want you to check and see if the boys are creating zombies!
(Cut to Linda in the bedroom putting away her laundry.)
Linda: Oh, I love it when teenagers get together and do party pranks! Do you win the game if I actually do what you say?
(Cut to the living room where Buford is still freaking out.)
Baljeet: This has taken considerably longer than I have ever imagined!
Phineas: Buford, chill out! You're fine!
Buford: Whadaya mean, "fine"? I've got no bounce left! I'm totally unprotected!
Phineas: We'll build another rubberization ray.
Baljeet: Yes. It is not as if society has crumbled, Buford. The phone networks are still up.
Phineas: We still have electric power.
Baljeet: And water is still flowing out the tap.
(Correction: Water was still flowing out the tap. Ferb's phone's power gets cut off and the lights all turn out.)
(Cut to the city skyline of Danville as one by one all the lights shut off.)
Buford: (offscreen) Aaaaaaaaaaahhhhhh!!!!!
(Cut to Candace in the D.E.I. bedroom.)
Candace: Mom? Mom, are you there? Something weird is going on! Not the usual weird! A different, not-normal weird!
Vanessa: This is not my dad's everyday weird either.
(The punk girls grab each other and scream.)
Candace: Something tells me I shoulda just hung out at Stacy's.
(Cut to the oblivious Stacy.)
Stacy: (to the TV) Look out! She's right behind you! (the power shuts off) Ugh! You gotta be kiddin' me! Talk about Grievance interruptus. (gets off the couch)
(Cut to the front yard of the Flynn-Fletcher house. Linda joins her husband.)
Linda: I just love blackouts. They're kind of exciting in a way.
Lawrence: Yeah, oh, yes. And it's one of the few times you get to meet your neighbors.
Doof zombie: Lots of me...
Lawrence: Like this fellow here. Hello. Pleased to meet you. I'm Lawrence.
(Lawrence shakes his hand but he and Linda transform into Doof zombies.)
Doof zombie, Doof zombie (Linda) and Doof zombie (Lawrence): Lots of me...
(Cut to Phineas watching from behind the curtains.)
Phineas: Oh no! They got Mom and Dad! And without power, there's no way to repair the circuits!
Buford: Game over, man! We're doomed!
Baljeet: No! There is always a way! Isabella teaches the emergency preparedness class for the Fireside Girls. She could build a generator in her sleep. Is that not right, Isabella? (who is not here)
Phineas: Isabella? I...I thought she was... Didn't anyone... Who saw her last? (He freaks out just like Buford.)
Buford: "Buford, chill out. You're fine." I'm vindicated.
(Cut to somewhere in Danville where all the Doof zombies are doing their wreckage.)
Man 3: There's no Internet!
Man 4: I've got to know what's going on!
Martin the News Vendor: Yeah! Print is back, baby!
Man 4: Wait, this is all stuff that happened yesterday! (runs and screams)
(A Doof zombie touches Martin.)
Doof zombie (Martin the News Vendor): Lots of me, baby...
(Cut to Perry still trapped.)
Perry: (chatters and struggles)
(Perry looks at a giant mechanical hand and a remote under it. He attempts to reach for the remote through a hole in the trap. He finally grabs it and pushes the purple button activating the hand, which lifts up the box of bowling balls and anvil freeing him from the trap. A bunch of Doof zombies climb over the balcony.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me..., etc.
(Perry looks for an escape and sees more Doof zombies fall out of a door. He walks backwards but bumps into a box of toilet plungers. He takes two plungers and flings them at the zombies. He goes into a door and blockades it with two boxes. However, he is startled by another Doof zombie.)
Doof zombie: Lots of me...
Perry: (gasps)

Act IV
(Scene opens on Perry grabbed by what appears to be a Doof zombie, but is actually the real Doofenshmirtz.)
Doofenshmirtz: Lots of me... Naw, I'm just kidding! It's...It's me! But those guys are annoying, aren't they? Anyway, welcome to my Startle Space. I wanted a panic room, but it was just prohibitively expensive. I just had to get to a place where I could clear my head, man. Those other mes, they're really workin' my last nerve. "Lots of me... Lots of me..." One of me is fine, but, ih, I can really be annoying en masse. I'll admit it. So, uh, are you hungry? I got plenty of food. (Perry takes down a can of almond brittle.) Or maybe you wanna play a game. I got some old Drusselstein board games here, like, ooh, "Kleptocracy"! Vanessa used to love this game when she was a— (gasps) Vanessa! Oh no! She's still in the building! We need to stop those mes before they get to her or, or she could turn into me! That's every child's worst nightmare! Well, (Stammers) not me, specifically, other children are afraid of turning into me. It's just that I'm saying turning into your parent. That's what's scary. (gasps) Vanessa! Vanessa! (He runs out the door.)
Doof zombie: Lots of me..., etc.
(Cut to the boarded up Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Phineas: (offscreen) I can't believe we left her!
(Cut to the living room where the boys are using lots of flashlights.)
Phineas: (pacing) I hope she's okay. She's just gotta be! I'm gonna check the periscope again. Maybe she's back by now.
Baljeet: I will do it.
Phineas: Thanks, Baljeet.
(Baljeet walks up to a periscope. POV shot from the periscope revealing the zombies stalking over the Garcia-Shapiro residence.)
Baljeet: Oh. Nothing but pharmacists as far as the periscope can see.
Phineas: Man, I hope she's okay. (sighs) If she's been turned into a pharmacist, I'll never forgive myself.
Baljeet: Do not worry, Phineas. With all of her training, she will be fine. Just last week, she earned her Judo, Hapkido, and Jujitsu Patches.
Phineas: Judo? Hapkido? But those are all grappling techniques! And if she touches one of them, then... ih... Wait, wait. I bet she's at Fireside Girl Headquarters! We've got to go there!
Baljeet: But that is all the way across town!
Buford: We can't go out there unprotected! We're sittin' ducks!
Phineas: Since our rubberization machine is toast, we're gonna need some sort of insulating armor. Hey, Ferb, do we have any rubber lying around?
(Cut to Ferb standing in front of a pile of rubber items. He looks behind him and shows it to his brother.)
Phineas: Two steps ahead as always. Ferb, I know what we're gonna do tonight!
(Cut to Stacy, still oblivious, in her backyard.)
Stacy: (scoffs) Figures. The power goes out right in the middle of the movie. Good thing I got the power generator package option. Okay, let's see. (reading manual) "For your safety, please make sure to wear included protective gear when operating the generator."
(The Doof zombies appear behind her fence. Stacy puts on earmuffs and rubber gloves.)
Stacy: Great! Here we go! (A Doof zombie attempts to stalk behind her, but she pulls the chord and unintentionally punches the zombie unconscious.) Nice! Hooked up a video system and a generator! I am good!
(She heads back into her house.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me...
(Wipe right to another alleyway. Shaun from the film Shaun of the Dead appears.)
Shaun: Don't touch me! I don't want to be a pharmac—! Wait a second... That doesn't even make sense. You get touched by a pharmacist, you become a pharmacist? I mean, you can't just grow a lab coat.
Ed: I don't know, perhaps the disease infects your clothin' as well.
Shaun: Infects my c— Are you insinuating that my clothes are alive? That's scarier than these pharmacist saying... (gets touched and transforms)
Doof zombie (Shaun): Lots of me...
Ed: Oh, I s'pose I didn't really think that through. (gets touched and transforms)
Doof zombie (Ed): Lots of me...
(Cut to the D.E.I. building. Cut to the zombies chasing Perry.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me...,etc.
(Perry takes off his fedora and gets out a remote and pushes it. He jumps onto his hang-glider away from the zombies. His wristwatch communicator beeps.)
Major Monogram: Agent P! (static) Agent P! Do not come— (static) —headquarters! It is— (static) —life-or-Doof situation! (static) O.W.C.A. has fallen! I repeat, O.W.C.A. has— (Crash!) (static) Agent P, we need you to find the source of the contagion and protect those who haven't been infected. You're our last hope.
Carl: You're the Omega Platypus! But no pressure! Oh!
(Static)
Major Monogram: (transforming) Good luck, Agent P. Good—
Doof zombie (Major Monogram): Lots of me... Lots of me...
Doof zombie (Carl): Lots of me... I used to be Carl...
(Perry turns off his wristwatch and flies downward.)
(Cut to a playground also invaded by Doof zombies. Cut to a street where the now protected Phineas and the boys sneak away hurriedly.)
Phineas: Okay, guys. Fireside Girls Headquarters is only a couple of blocks away.
(The Hightail Delivery truck's door lifts open revealing even more zombies.)
Phineas: Whoa! Look alive, boys!
Doof zombies: Lots of me... Lots of me..., etc.
(The boys crawl on their hands and knees and roll down a hill and run to a darkened street corner where they see a four-legged shadowy figure.)
Buford: Oh, hey, it's a dog. Here boy! (whistles)
(The "dog" walks into the light to reveal it is actually Agent G, the goat agent, now in the shape of Doof.)
Doof zombie (Agent G): Baaa...
(Buford runs backwards and screams.)
Doof zombie (Agent O): (hoots)
Phineas: What the?
Doof zombie (Agent M): (screeches)
(More OWCA agents are revealed to have taken on the shape of Doof.)
Phineas: Oh no! The contagion must have a different effect on animals!
(The Doof zombies/OWCA agents all chase the boys. Agent C attempts to peck at Ferb. Baljeet throws a trash can at Agent M. Buford gets chased by Agent Pig. Buford and Baljeet get a mop and wheeled bucket and swipe the mop at the animal-Doofs. Phineas and Ferb ride on the mop.)
Phineas: They're following us!
Buford: Hold on! I'll try to lose 'em! Feet up, Ferb!
(Cut to Agent P still on his hang-glider seeing the boys get chased by the former OWCA agents. He follows them. He gets caught by a bunch of hanging clotheslines, which fling the Doof zombie animals backwards.)
Phineas: Looks like we lost 'em!
(The boys are now in the middle of a swarm of human zombies.)
Buford: Yes and no! Aaaaaaahhhh!
(Cut to D.E.I.)
Doofenshmirtz: Vanessa! Vanessa! Alright, alright, party's over! I've had it up to here with you mes! Y'know, I'm really getting sick of the sound of my own voice. Now I understand where Charlene was coming from.
Doof zombies: (crowding Doof) Lots of me... Lots of me..., etc.
Doofenshmirtz: AAAAAAAAHHHHH!!!
(Cut to the D.E.I. door where the zombies carry Doof out of the building and dump him on the sidewalk.)
Doof zombies: Less of me... Less of me... Less of me...
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, typical. Typical. Yeah, turn on your creator. You guys are all cliché, I'm just letting you know!

Act V
(Scene opens on Vanessa's bedroom. Candace blockades the door further with a couch.)
Candace: That should hold 'em.
Vanessa: Okay, guys, we gotta figure out a plan.
Birgitte: We should totally split up!
Lacie: I'm gonna go hide in the bathroom where it's safe.
Dana: I know. I'll run off to check an obscure noise in the kitchen!
Heather: I'm gonna slowly walk backwards into a dimly lit room.
Candace: Really? See, if they watch more domestic horror films, they'd know...
Lacie: (groans offscreen)
Vanessa: Lacie? Are you okay? (walks up to the bathroom door)
Lacie: Oh. Yeah.
Vanessa: Feeling safer in there?
Lacie: (stoic) L-Lots.
Vanessa: Cool.
Candace: Wait a minute.
(Opens the door to reveal Doof zombies in the bathroom.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me... Lots of me..., etc.
Candace: (gasps)
Lacie: (gets transformed) Lots of...
Doof zombie (Lacie): ...me...
Candace and Vanessa: Run!
(Candace and Vanessa un-blockade the door and run out, leaving the other punk girls behind.)
Dana: Oh, I knew we shouldn't have split up!
Doof zombie: (touching them) Lots of me...
Punk girls: (gasping)
Dana: Aaiiiiieeee!
(They transform.)
Doof zombies (Punk girls): Lots of me...
Doof zombies: Lots of me...,etc.
(Cut to Fireside Girls Headquarters.)
Giant Floating Doofy Zombie Head (Giant Floating Baby Head): Lots of me...
(Gretchen and Ginger, standing on each other's shoulders and dressed as a pharmacist zombie, return to Fireside Girls Headquarters)
Gretchen: Katie, bar the door. (Katie does so) Is she back yet?
Holly: No sign of her yet. We've searched everywhere.
Milly: Where could she be?
Gretchen: She's probably still with Phineas and Ferb. She'll make it.
(a collection of tin cans ring out as an alarm)
Adyson: Perimeter alert! We have incoming.
Gretchen: Stations, everyone! (to Ginger) Put out that light. (Ginger does so) Katie?
Katie: Yup. (turns to the door) Friend or pharmacist?
Phineas: (behind door) It's us, let us in! (Katie opens the door; Phineas, Ferb, Baljeet and Buford enter)
Adyson: It's Phineas and Ferb!
Ginger: And Baljeet.
Phineas: Isabella, are you here?
Gretchen: (gasps) We thought she was with you.
Adyson: Isabella's still out there?
Buford: I toldja, man! She's probably wearin' a lab coat by now!
Phineas: It can't be!
Baljeet: I am afraid Buford is right, Phineas.
Doof zombie: Lots of me... (chatters teeth like Perry)
Baljeet: The odds of anyone surviving out there for this long—
Phineas: If anyone can do it, Isabella can!
Buford: It doesn't matter anyway! Sooner or later, they're gonna figure out we're in here and then they're gonna come in here! They're gonna come in here and they're gonna come in here and they're gonna come in here and they're gonna—
Gretchen: (slaps Buford) Lock it down, solider! No one is gonna get in here, ya hear me?!
Buford: I am so in love with her right now.
Phineas: Okay, I'm running out of ideas. I don't know where she could be.
(A floorboard is heard banging. The boys and the Fireside Girls all gasp. The trap door opens up to reveal...)
Isabella: I'm right here.
Phineas: Isabella! I'm so sorry we lost track of you.
Isabella: There's no time! We have a job to do!
Adyson, Ginger and Gretchen: (infatuated) OooooOOOooooh!
Isabella: We may be the only non-pharmacists left in Danville. I think I figured out where this started. And if we could get there, we might be able to figure out how it started and reverse it.
Phineas: Wait. How did you find out where it started?
Isabella: (uncapping a marker) Well, I'm glad you asked.
(Song: Triangulation)
Isabella: ♪ Roger Doofenshmirtz, we know, is six feet and two inches tall ♪
♪ And the beam that hit him left a weird impression on that wall. ♪
♪ So I took the angle from that point of where I knew he stood, ♪
♪ And I found the building just like that because I understood. ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ Triangulation! ♪
Isabella: ♪ That's how I figured it out. ♪
Fireside Girls: ♪ Triangulation! ♪
Isabella: ♪ Now I'm left with no doubt. ♪
♪ The only geometric process using data I possess... ♪
Isabella and the Fireside Girls: ♪ That could pinpoint the conclusion of my scientific quest. ♪
♪ Triangulaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaation! ♪
Baljeet: ♪ Cha cha cha! ♪ That is a mighty upbeat song for a desperate situation.
Phineas: Huh, that building looks familiar.
(Isabella lifts up the screen she was using as a whiteboard during the song to reveal the D.E.I. building out the window.)
Phineas: Oh. I guess that's why. Y'know, it might be a good idea to board that window.
Katie: Oh! So that's why there was so much wood left over.
(Cut to Isabella as a Doof zombie arm attempts to grab her.)
Doof zombie: Lots of me... Lots of me...
Katie: And I definitely should have closed the window! (gets grabbed by the other Fireside Girls) Eeee!
(Phineas, the gang, and the girls all climb down the trap door. Cut to outside the headquarters. Pan right to a stump. It opens and Isabella checks to see if the coast is clear. She and the other Fireside Girls climb out of the stump. The other Fireside Girls put on their pharmacist zombie disguises.)
Phineas: Now what?
Isabella: We've gotta make our way to that building! I'm sure we'll find our answers there!
(They all run towards the building.)
(Cut to Agent P looking through binoculars. He sees the kids running toward the building. He looks up to see the street bombarded with Doof zombies. He gets on his hang-glider and flies away.)
(Cut back to the gang. The Fireside Girls all pharmacist up to blend in with the crowd.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me..., etc.
(Agent P fires his grappling hook downwards and it hits a trashcan. The zombies get distracted by it and follow it.)
Gretchen: Where're they going?
Isabella: Doesn't matter. They're distracted. Let's move!
Doof zombies: Lots of me..., etc.
(Overhead shot to reveal the Doof zombies in a repo yard. Perry glides away from them and closes the gate. He then looks in fear as he sees Agent F, Agent K, Agent Bulldog, Agent Porcupine and Agent Pinky all transformed into Doof zombies!)
Doof Zombie (Pinky the Chihuahua): (growls)
(Cut to the D.E.I. hallway where Candace and Vanessa run from the zombies.)
Candace: In here!
(Candace and Vanessa walk into the stairway door. Vanessa ties the knob with a fire hose.)
Vanessa: Ugh!
Candace: Phew!
(Thumping on the door is heard outside.)
Candace: What's going on with your dad?
Vanessa: I don't know. His schemes aren't normally this successful.
Candace: Wait! Phineas and Ferb!
Vanessa: I'm pretty sure this was not them.
Candace: No, I know. But they'll know what to do about it. (banging on the door) Come on! Come on! Let's move!
Vanessa: I'm right behind ya!
(Cut to outside the building.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me...,etc.
Isabella: We made it!
Buford: Not a pharmacist in sight. Now's as good a time as any to rush in blindly, don't you think?
Phineas: Okay, guys. Let's go...quietly.
(They attempt to go quietly, but one of the rubber duckies Buford is using to protect his elbows squeaks and sets off a car alarm.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me...,etc.
Isabella: Here they come!
Baljeet: They are all over the place!
Phineas: Come on! Let's go!
(They flee from the Doof zombies.)
Baljeet: (screams)
Buford: Sanctuary!
(Phineas, Ferb, Isabella, Baljeet, and Buford all safely make it into the building's lobby. The Fireside Girls try to flee after them, but one of the zombies steps on Gretchen and Ginger's disguise, exposing them. it is not long before the other girls are discovered as well.)
Isabella: (gasps)
(The zombies gang up on the Fireside Girls. Gretchen tries to escape, but it is too late; she transforms.)
Doof zombie (Gretchen): Lots of me...
Isabella: No! No!

Act VI
(Scene opens where we left Isabella. Phineas walks up to her.)
Isabella: I'm going back for them!
Phineas: You can't help them now!
(A Doof zombie presses its face against the glass.)
Phineas and Isabella: (scream)
(Phineas squishes the zombie into the revolving door.)
Phineas: Quick! Find something to block this door!
Buford: It ain't gonna be easy without ruinin' the feng shui of the lobby.
Phineas: Hurry! (A zombie rips his sleeve.) I'm exposed!
Isabella: Phineas, use this! (Tosses the Emotional Bravery Patch to him.)
Phineas: (catches the patch) Thanks! (He covers the rip with the patch.)
(Ferb blocks the door with a plant.)
Phineas: Nice work, bro! Thanks, Isabella! Are you all right?
Isabella: I'm all right.
Phineas: Buford, you okay?
Buford: I'm okay? (to Baljeet) You okay?
Baljeet: I am fine.
(A Doof zombie appears behind Baljeet and touches his face.)
Doof zombie: Lots of me...
Baljeet: (gasps and screams as he transforms)
Buford: BALJEET!!!!
Baljeet: Lots of...
Doof zombie (Baljeet): ...me...
Buford: (takes off his clown mask) That's it!
Phineas: Buford, what are you doing?
Buford: Look, I just lost my nerd! I'm not gonna lose the rest of my friends, too! (takes off his rubber duckies)
Phineas: But, Buford, that's—
Buford: (stripping down to his underdrawers) Come on, you freaks! Fresh meat! (screams) Yippee-ki-yay, you pharmacist freaks! Yippee-ki—
(Outside, he gets touched and transforms.)
Buford: (offscreen) Lots of...
Doof zombie (Buford): ...me...
Phineas: Y'know, he really could've been bait without taking his clothes off.
Isabella: Uh, yeah.
(Cut to Agent P surrounded by the OWCA-Doofs and the Doof zombies.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me..., etc.
Doof zombie (Agent B): (Growls)
(A helicopter whirs overhead.)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, need a ride? (a rope ladder drops down from the chopper) Oh, oh, oh, wait, I should've said, "Need a lift?" That's what— I totally missed it.
(Perry climbs up the rope ladder and into the chopper to safety.)
Doofenshmirtz: It's much safer up here, huh? You might still wanna buckle up, though. It's my first time flying a helicopter.
(Perry buckles up.)
(Cut back to the lobby. Phineas and Ferb blockade the revolving door with the water cooler.)
Phineas: That'll hold for now. But we gotta move before—
(A zombie makes his way through the door somehow.)
Phineas: Really?! Come on, guys! Head for the stairs!
Doof zombies: Lots of me..., etc.
Phineas: (attempts to open the stairway door) It's locked!
Isabella: Now what?!
Phineas: Any ideas?
Isabella: I got nothin'!
Phineas: Ferb?
Ferb: I'm petrified beyond all capacity for rational thought.
(The door behind them opens revealing Candace and Vanessa.)
Phineas: Candace?
Candace: Phineas!
Isabella: Candace!
Candace: Isabella?
Vanessa: Ferb!
Ferb: (no comment)
Phineas: Candace!
Candace: Phineas!
Isabella: Candace!
Candace: Isabella?
Vanessa: Ferb!
Ferb: (no comment)
Phineas: Candace!
Candace: Phineas!
Isabella: Enough! We have to get upstairs!
Candace: No way! The whole upstairs is crawling with ph—
Doof zombies: Lots of me..., etc.
Candace: Stairwell it is! What's with the rubber?
Phineas: It insulates against the infection.
Candace: I don't even wanna know how you figured that one out.
(Cut to the still oblivious Stacy watching her movie.)
Stacy: No! Don't walk into the kitchen, Grievance lady! Ohhh! Gosh! How could she be so oblivious?
(Cut to the stairwell.)
Phineas: Just...keep...climbing...
Candace: (panting) This is enough cardi...cardio...to last me a lifetime.
(Cut to Doof and Perry in the chopper.)
Doofenshmirtz: Man, I've had off days before, but this is a lulu, even for me. I-I never thought I could get so sick of myself. Oh, well. You know, at least with a disaster of this proportion, things can't get any worse.
(Doof looks behind him as the Doof Agent B growls at him and he whimpers. The bear fights Doof in his chopper. Doof and Perry almost fall out but hang on.)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, Perry the Platypus, when you get a minute, grab the controls, would you, please?
(While Doof and the bear fight, Perry takes control of the chopper and steers it willy-nilly.)
(Cut to Doof's lab.)
Vanessa: This is it, my dad's floor.
Candace: Thank goodness.
(Candace, Vanessa, Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella walk up to the door and open it to see countless Doof-zombies.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me..., etc.
Vanessa: Whoa, this place is crawling with them.
Isabella: (pointing to the destroyed inator) There it is! That must be where the ray came from!
Candace: Ugh! If only there was a way to get rid of all those zombies.
(Right on cue, the chopper crashes into the balcony and whirs all the zombies backward. Perry stops the chopper and the bear Doof zombie crashes into the panic room door.)
Doof zombies: Lots of...
Vanessa: Strange and unusual.
Candace: Same old same old. Come on!
Doofenshmirtz: (coughs) Oh, I sure hope the poor slob who lives here has insurance. That would be... (He looks around to see he is "the poor slob who lives here".) Oh, crud. Vanessa!
Vanessa: Dad! (runs up to him for a hug) It's you! Okay, so what did you do?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, it was just a simple Repulse-inator, y'know to, to make Roger ugly, but then, there was some sort of power surge and this happened!
Phineas: (tinkering with the inator) Well, that explains the electromagnetic charge that's changing everybody. But we need some kind of conductor that neutralizes it.
Isabella: Well, water neutralizes static.
Phineas: Yes! Water should change everyone back!
Vanessa: Um, isn't that a bit of a leap?
Doofenshmirtz: No, I'm a scientist. I'm gonna go with 'im on that. I might have a water pistol lying around. I-I can go get it.
Phineas: Yeah, but we've gotta find a way to get everyone in Danville wet at once. Otherwise, the contagion could start again.
Isabella: We can wait till it rains.
Candace: Oh! We don't have time! And when does it ever rain here?
Phineas: Unfortunately, the water went out with the power. So we need to find a large supplier of water. Preferably elevated so that gravity can work in our favor.
(Ferb points up to the Danville water tower.)
Phineas: Yeah, I know. We just need to build a pulley system to get us over there and some sort of giant sprinkler to spray the whole city.
Vanessa: There's always lots of spare parts laying around here.
Doofenshmirtz: I like to tinker.
Phineas: Let's get to work!
(Montage: The gang all begin working on the pulley system and everything else. At one point, Doof suggests a self-destruct button, but Phineas refuses it.)
(Cut to the Doof zombies regaining consciousness.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me..., etc.
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, fellas, I think you might wanna hurry up.
Phineas: You guys hold 'em off! And don't forget to rubber up!
(Candace and Vanessa put on rubber gloves and get out toilet plungers.)
Doofenshmirtz: (doing a karate yell and wearing rubber gloves on his arms and head)
Vanessa: Dad, why are you wearing that? Aren't you immune?
Doofenshmirtz: Well, everyone else was dressing up.
Doof zombies: Lots of me..., etc.
Phineas: That's it! Everything's built! Let's go over the plan. (They take out scale models.) One: Ferb shoots the grappling hook, which attaches to the service platform of the water tower. Two: We send the vortex sprayer up the line. Three: We all ride up in the basket lift. Four: Once we reach the tower, I'll climb into the top of the tank...
Candace: Talk faster!
Phineas: ...and open the hatch. Five: Isabella will attach the connecting claw to the open hatch, which will move the vortex sprayer into place.
Vanessa: (offscreen) Phineas, we can't hold them much longer!
Phineas: Whoever makes it to the vortex sprayer first presses that button to activate it! (Breathes) Alright, any questions?
Candace: Yeah, was it worth the time it took to build a scale model?
Phineas: Totally. Anyone else? Yeah, you in the back?
Doof zombie: Lots of me...
Vanessa: Hurry up, guys!
(Ferb fires the grappling hook and it latches onto the letter "V".)
Vanessa: Great shot, Ferb!
Candace: Vanessa, behind you! (gets touched and transforms) Oh, crud. Lots of...
Doof zombie (Candace): ...me...
Phineas: Candace!
Doof zombie (Candace): Lots of me...
Phineas: NOOOOOOOO!!!!
Isabella: Come on, guys! We gotta go!
Phineas: Hurry!
(Isabella, Phineas and Ferb climb into the bucket and it pulls them up.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, man, what I wouldn't give for that single-minded focus. Hey, what's that over there?
(Cut to Perry attempting to climb out of the helicopter door, but he gets touched and transforms, too.)
Doof zombie (Perry): (chatters) Lots of me...
Doofenshmirtz: No! Not Perry the Platypus!!
Vanessa: There's too many of them! Dad?! (gets touched and transforms)
Doofenshmirtz: No! Not Vanessa!!!
Doof zombie (Vanessa): Lots of me?
Doofenshmirtz: NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!! (takes off his gloves) That's it! That's it! That's it! (takes off his lab coat and shirt) I've had enough of you mes! (Doof is now in his underdrawers.) Alright, you freaks! Fresh meat! Yippee-ki-yay, you pharmacist freaks! Yippee-ki-yay!
Phineas: Again with the clothes.
Isabella: I know. What's that all about?
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) This is yet another callback to something I didn't hear!
Isabella: Wow! Look at that! We may be the only ones left.
(The bucket begins swaying back and forth. Cut to reveal the Doof zombies pulling on the rope.)
Isabella: Oh no! The line's breaking! We're not gonna make it!
Phineas: We have to! If we don't make it, Danville falls!
(The vortex sprayer makes it, but Phineas, Ferb and Isabella's bucket's line breaks and it falls. Ferb somehow steers the bucket to land onto the stairway.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me..., etc.
Phineas: Is everyone all right?
Isabella: I'm good!
Phineas: And there's the vortex sprayer! C'mon, let's go!
(They run up the stairs panting.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me..., etc.
(Phineas, Ferb and Isabella are now surrounded by zombies.)
Phineas: We're not gonna make it!
Ferb: No. You and Isabella will make it. (He charges into the zombies.)
Phineas: Ferb! No!
(Ferb flings himself at the zombies.)
Ferb: (grunts)
(One of the zombies grabs Ferb's mask and touches him.)
Phineas and Isabella: Ferb!
Doof zombie (Ferb): Lots of me...
Isabella: Phineas! No! Don't touch him!
Phineas: Ferb! I can't just...
Isabella: I know! But the only way to save him is to keep going! Come on!
(Phineas and Isabella run up the stairs.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me..., etc.
Isabella: Phineas! Aaah!
Phineas: Hang in there, Isabella! We're almost there!
Isabella: It's just...If this is the end, there's something I have to tell you!
Phineas: Okay, shoot.
Isabella: For the longest time...
Phineas: C'mon! There it is!
Isabella: But, Phineas, Phineas... I LIKE YOU!!
Phineas: I like you, too, Isabella!
Isabella: No! I mean I like-you like you!
Phineas: Wow. I mean, gosh. I...I...I've always felt...
(A zombie hand reaches for Isabella.)
Isabella: Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!!!
Phineas: Get away from her!
Isabella: Phineas! No! Ah! No!
Phineas: (Grunting)(transforming and giving her a clamp) Go! LLLLL....
Doof zombie (Phineas): Lots of me...
Isabella: Oh, Phineas! (sniffles) Get it together, Fireside Girl! It's up to you to save Phineas! (climbs up the tower) It's up to you to save Danville! It's up to you... (Realizes what she is doing) to stop talking to yourself!
(Isabella opens the hatch of the water tower and puts the clamp onto the hole. The vortex sprayer lifts up with a bunch of zombies riding on it. Isabella reaches for the button but gets touched.)
Isabella: Aaah! (grunting) Got...to...Go! (She presses the button successfully but still transforms and grunts) Lots of...
Doof zombie (Isabella): ...me...
(The vortex sprayer activates and sprays all of Danville starting with the Doof zombie at the podium, who turns back into Roger.)
Roger: Is the ceremony over?
(Cut to the audience where all the Doof zombies there get sprayed.)
Doof zombies: Lots of...
(The Doofs transform into some citizens and the Fireside Girls.)
(Cut to two Doofs on the roof of OWCA. They get sprayed and transform into Monogram and Carl.)
Major Monogram: Carl, why are we holding our arms like this?
(Cut to another area where one Doof is lifting another Doof's lab coat.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me...
(They get sprayed and turn into a citizen, Baljeet giving Buford a wedgie, and Beppo Brown.)
Buford: I dunno what happened here and I'm pretty sure I don't want to.
(Cut to the water tower where all the rest of the Doofs get sprayed.)
Doof zombies: Lots of me...
(They transform into some citizens as well as Shaun and Ed.)
Shaun: I still say this makes no sense at all.
Ed: I know, right?
(Cut to D.E.I. headquarters, where Candace and Vanessa are back to normal and soaked.)
Vanessa: Oh, hey there, Candace. You okay?
Candace: Oh, yeah, totes. Just hangin' out, rockin' the wet lo— Oh, who'm I kidding? Look at me.
Vanessa: Well, you're pretty cool under pressure.
Candace: You weren't so bad yourself.
Vanessa: Thanks. It was good hanging with you. We should do it again sometime. Preferably without the threat of a zombie apocalypse.
Doofenshmirtz: I'm not makin' any promises.
Candace: Well, see you around. (she leaves)
Vanessa: Definitely. Come on, Dad. Let's go play a game of Kleptocracy.
Doofenshmirtz: That's my girl.
(Cut to the water tower. Phineas climbs up to Isabella.)
Phineas: Isabella. Are you okay?
Isabella: Yeah. Just a little foggy.
Phineas: What happened?
Isabella: I remember building the vortex sprayer, but after that, I've got no clue.
Phineas: Me neither. But whatever happened, it worked!
Ferb: Yes. Everyone seems to be noticeably lab coat free.
Phineas: At least everyone within the walled city of Danville.
(Overhead shot to reveal everyone outside the walls is now a Doof zombie.)
Isabella: (offscreen) Yeah, too bad about the rest of civilization.
Doof zombies: Lots of me..., etc.
Title Card: The End
(Zoom out to reveal the title card on Stacy's TV. She turns it off.)
Stacy: Pfft! Horror movies. Scary, but so unbelievable. (She leaves.)

End credits
(Song: Lots of Me)
Doof zombies: ♪ Lo-Lo-Lots of me... ♪
♪ Lo-Lo-Lots of me... ♪
♪ Lots of me... ♪
♪ Lo-Lo-Lots of me... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ At first, I was thinkin', "Hey, this is great!" ♪
♪ But there's more of me than even I can tolerate! ♪
♪ Plus, now I really notice I should lose some weight, ♪
♪ Get a shave, get a trim, exfoliate! ♪
Doof zombies: ♪ Lo-Lo-Lots of me... ♪
♪ Lo-Lo-Lots of me... ♪
L-L-L-Lots of me...
♪ Lo-Lo-Lots of me... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Watch 'em milling about like a bunch of lost sheep, ♪
♪ Now everyone in town thinks I'm kind of a creep. ♪
♪ I'm not philosophical, I'm not that deep, ♪
♪ But I guess what you sow, you kinda gotta reap. ♪
Doof zombies: ♪ Lots of me... ♪
♪ Lo-Lo-Lots of me... ♪
♪ Lots of me... ♪
♪ Lo-Lo-Lots of me... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Now there's lots of me, yeah, there's lots of me! ♪
♪ If you wanna, you can play connect-the-dots with me! ♪
♪ Tell all the haters who been takin' pot-shots at me, ♪
♪ You gotta target what you fire, but there's lots of me! ♪
Doof zombies: ♪ Lots of me... ♪
♪ Lo-Lo-Lots of me... ♪
♪ Lots of me... ♪
♪ Lo-Lo-Lots of me... ♪
♪ Lots of me... ♪
♪ Lo-Lo-Lots of me... ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ What I'm tryin' to say is there's lots of me!! ♪

Part 1
(as shown on Netflix)
(Song: Army of Me)
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ Who's that guy with the lab coat on? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I wonder who.
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ Who's that guy with the vacant expression? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I'll never tell.
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ It's not a conclusion that it's so forgone. ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Okay, it's me, ♪
♪ And me, ♪
♪ And me, ♪
♪ And also me! ♪
Over there, that's me, too.
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ Who's that guy with the jutting jaw? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, baby!
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ Who's that guy with the receding forehead? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Hey!
The Fake Andrews Sisters: ♪ Who's that guy living outside of the law? ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Oh, that's me ♪



Part 1
(Scene opens on a small green vortex coming towards the camera.)
Female Voice: (whispering) I am ashparash!
Charlene-2: (narrating) Our dimension is changed.
Male Voice: (also whispering) What's that?
Female Voice: (whispering) It's Elvish.
Charlene-2: (narrating) I feel it in the water.
Male Voice: (whispering) Yes, but what does it mean?
Female Voice: (whispering) It doesn't mean anything. It's a made-up language.
Charlene-2: (narrating) I feel it in the earth.
Male Voice: (whispering) Oh, then I want to try one.
Charlene-2: (narrating) I feel it in the little pieces of apple in my Waldorf salad.
Female Voice: (whispering) Go ahead.
Charlene-2: (narrating) Much of what once was...
Male Voice: (whispering) Sepulveda.
Charlene-2: (narrating) is lost.
Female Voice: (whispering) What?
Male Voice: (whispering) It's an exit off the 405.
Charlene-2: (narrating) For some now live who remember it the way it really happened.
(Title card.)
(A montage of scenes from Across the Second Dimension plays during the following narration.)
Charlene-2: (narrating) Like all terrible things, it started with small-minded people who became great. Victory was near. But small things can also be good, and can work against evil, like how a tiny cat hair can ruin an evil sandwich. The great empire fell and fell some more. And what was once evil melted away and was replaced by the love of a choo-choo. Soon all discovered that there was more to life than vigilance. All but one.
(The montage crossfades into a picture of the second dimension Flynn-Fletcher family. Zoom out to reveal second dimension Candace's bedroom.)
Candace-2: (voiceover) War journal entry number... Uh, I mean, Dear Diary, It's been two months since the fall of Doofenshmirtz, but every morning I think I'm gonna wake up back in the underground. I feel restless. I need a challenge. I need a mission. I can feel myself getting softer. Doofenshmirtz is in jail and everyone is trying to embrace their new freedom. I alone know better. I can feel evil still out there, getting stronger while I sit in my room, waiting for the other shoe to drop.
(Cut to the second dimension backyard. Dr. Baljeet and Buford-2 join Phineas-2 and Ferb-2.)
Buford-2: Hey, guys! I think I stepped on a slug.
Dr. Baljeet: A slug, really?
Buford-2: Wait a sec. What do you call those things that eat nuts and live in trees?
Dr. Baljeet: A squirrel?
Buford-2: Yeah. It was definitely a slug.
Phineas-2: Where's your other shoe?
Buford-2: I dunno. I must've dropped it.
Candace-2: (from her bedroom window) Hey, what's all this about the other shoe dropping?
Phineas-2: Buford stepped on a slug.
Candace-2: Okay, but be careful down there. Call me if there's any trouble. (She backs away from her window slowly, then quickly peers back out.)
Phineas-2: So how's the "summer fun" coming along, Dr. Baljeet?
Dr. Baljeet: Well, since the Phineas and Ferb from the first dimension suggested we make the most of our summer, Buford and I have been experimenting with fun, and so far...
Buford-2: So far, I'd rather be breakin' rocks for the state. But, in all fairness, I do love breakin' stuff.
Dr. Baljeet: (to Phineas-2) What about you? How have you embraced your freedom?
Phineas-2: Fortunately, we've had a little help, thanks to the coolest pet ever.
(Whip pan left to Perry the Platyborg wearing a red baseball cap smiling.)
Phineas-2: Here, boy! Fetch!
(Phineas-2 throws a stick and Perry jets into the air to obliterate it.)
Phineas-2: Cool!
Ferb-2: Any pet can fetch a stick.
(Perry-2 lands on the ground and a metallic thud is heard.)
Phineas-2: What was that noise?
Dr. Baljeet: It is some kind of metal door.
Phineas-2: (to Perry-2) Here, boy, pull the chain.
(Perry-2 pulls the chain revealing some sort of underground compartment.)
Phineas-2: Whoa!
Lawrence-2: Oh, hello, boys. I see you found my secret stash.
Phineas-2: What is it, Dad?
Lawrence-2: Well, that's what's known as "sporting goods".
Dr. Baljeet: What do you do with them?
Lawrence-2: Back in the old days, before Youknowwho, people used to use this stuff to play sports.
Phineas-2: Could we play sports?
Lawrence-2: Well, I don't suppose there's any reason to hide this stuff anymore. So, yes! As they used to say, "Have a ball!"
Phineas-2: Ferb, I know what we're gonna do today! We're gonna use these goods and play a game of sports!
(Cut back to Candace-2's bedroom. Candace is doing pull-ups.)
Candace-2: (grunts) 999...
(Her vanity monitor begins beeping. She puts a lightbulb in and Major Monogram-2 appears on screen.)
Major Monogram-2: Good, you're home.
Candace-2: Monogram? Is there trouble? Do you need me?
Major Monogram-2: Hoo-hoo, stand down there. We captured Doofenshmirtz. Nothing left to resist. And it would look foolish to just stand there, resisting nothing... Well, unless you're a mime. Then it would look totally cool.
Candace-2: If there's no trouble, why are you calling?
Major Monogram-2: Oh, right! Ahem. As you know, after our agents were all captured and OWCA fell, your resistance partly operated out of our old headquarters.
Candace-2: Yeah, so?
Major Monogram-2: Yeah, well, um, now that we're trying to rebuild our spy network, I was wondering, um, where did you put the keys?
Candace-2: They're under the ceramic frog.
Carl-2: (appearing on the right side of the vanity) Oh, I love your three-monitor vanity!
Major Monogram-2: Carl will be helping me locate our animal agents so that we can—
Carl-2: (spinning around) Hey, I got my own monitor! Wee-hee!
Major Monogram-2: Carl, do you mind?
(Carl-2 ducks down.)
Major Monogram-2: Now, let's see. Where was I? Oh, yeah. (During this, Carl-2 appears on different sides of the vanity and mocks Monogram-2) So, yeah, if-if you get a chance, tell Agent P he can return to work anytime, and, uh, and if you see any other small animals, you can tell them to... Carl, why don't you go over and check the ceramic frog?
Carl-2: Yes, sir.
Candace-2: Major Monogram, do you want me to come over there and help you guys?
Major Monogram-2: No, no. Doofenshmirtz is in jail. Everything's fine. Go-Go to your picnic and relax. Dress festive, be young! Ha. You've earned it.
Candace-2: But, Major, I'm trained to—
Major Monogram-2: Leave the responsibility to us, young lady.
Carl-2: (offscreen) Look, Major Monogram, I found it!
Major Monogram-2: Carl, no! That's a real frog!
Carl-2: (offscreen) Oh.
Frog: Ribbit.
Carl-2: (offscreen) Ew!
Major Monogram-2: Yeah, I gotta run. You go have fun.
(The monitor becomes a mirror again.)
Candace-2: (sighs and gets her red shirt from a coat hanger) Well, I guess it's time to dress festive.
(Cut to the park, where Phineas-2, the gang, and the Firestorm Girls are playing a game of "sports".)
(Song: Playing a Game of Sports)
Aaron Jacob: ♪ I've got my football helmet on ♪
♪ And an old cricket bat ♪
♪ Volleyball net ♪
♪ And some cycling slacks ♪
Aaron and Danny Jacob: ♪ You've got a pair of figure skates ♪
♪ And a billiards rack ♪
♪ Dry suit, skort ♪
♪ And a baseball cap ♪
♪ We'll all have fun like mad ♪
♪ With the game we don't know ♪
Danny Jacob: ♪ Game that we don't know ♪
Aaron Jacob: ♪ It's one we've never played ♪
Aaron and Danny Jacob: ♪ And this is how it goes... ♪
Female Narrator: Once the gong is rung, the offensive team serves the pom-pom and advances down the field. The defending cyclists race past the tackling dummies and try to get into scoring position. If they manage to return the pom-pom into one of the scoring locations, they will be awarded a chance to chase the jumbo riding ball past the midfield skiing defender, while the other team tries to hit as many tennis balls as they can using golf clubs. I don't know why this guy has a canoe paddle.
Danny Jacob: ♪ Sports, sports ♪
Aaron Jacob: ♪ Sports is fun ♪
Danny Jacob: ♪ Sports, sports ♪
Aaron Jacob: ♪ In the summer sun ♪
Danny Jacob: ♪ Sports, sports ♪
Aaron Jacob: ♪ All over town ♪
♪ Touchdown! ♪
(Pan to a tree on a hill, where Candace-2 is standing and holding a bo staff.)
Isabella-2: Candace? Candace? Come in, Candace!
Candace-2: (Takes off her shades and turns around) Isabella? Oh, hey.
Isabella-2: Wait a minute, are you standing sentry?
Candace-2: (stoic) What? No. I was about to frolic down the hillside. I'm all about this whole "fun" thing.
Isabella-2: Y'know, you're not foolin' anybody.
Candace-2: Yeah?
Isabella-2: Bo staff.
Candace-2: Right.
Isabella-2: Candace, I thought you were going to take it easy. Whatever happened to that whole Jeremy Johnson thing?
Candace-2: We were supposed to go out, but things kept getting in the way. I didn't have any time. I was busy.
Isabella-2: Doing pull-ups in your room and watching your brothers?
Candace-2: I like doing pull-ups.
Isabella-2: There's no reason you can't do that, but you have to make room in your life for other things like fun and...
Candace-2: And Jeremy Johnson?
Isabella-2: Something like that. In the meantime, I'd like to introduce you to a little thing the kids are calling "ice cream". (runs down the hill)
Candace-2: "I scream?" W-What is that? Some kind of weird yelling game? (following Isabella-2)
(Cut back to Phineas-2 and the gang. A soccer ball is thrown into a bush)
Phineas-2: Nice hit, Dr. Baljeet.
Dr. Baljeet: Ha ha! I believe that makes the score six kadooms to twelve rempars.
Phineas-2: Eleven, if Perry can find the ball.
(Perry-2 takes off again. He finds the ball, but it gets squished by a metallic foot. Pan up to reveal the foot belonging to a Chihuahua-borg. The Chihuahua-borg fires at Perry-2.)
Phineas-2: Perry!
(Perry-2 pushes the Chihuahua-borg backwards and the Chihuahua-borg breaks a park bench. A bull-borg then jumps on him.)
Phineas-2: Come on, Ferb, we got to help him.
(A giant robotic leg blocks Phineas-2's way.)
Phineas-2: What the heck is that thing?!
(Cut to Isabella-2 and Candace-2. Candace-2 has a major ice cream headache.)
Candace-2: Ow! Ow!
Isabella-2: Candace, you have to eat the ice cream slowly. What is that?!
Candace-2: Giant mechanical ants! My brothers are in trouble! On your feet, kid, it's go time!
Isabella-2: There's a flying one!
Candace-2: I got it! (She fires a grappling hook at it.) Whoa!
Isabella-2: (skating past Candace-2) On your right!
(Cut back to Perry-2 and a Dog-borg fighting. A Kitty-borg also comes charging to Perry-2. Sunddenly, a Panda-borg electrocutes him by surprise.)
Phineas-2: Oh no! They got Perry!
(The giant mechanical ant stomps into the ground.)
(Cut back to Isabella-2 being chased by a flying robot. She traps the bot and one of the ant's legs comes apart. Phineas-2 and Ferb-2 run away from the ant toppling over. Cut back to Candace-2 chasing the flying ant. She destroys it and it crashes into a tree and explodes.)
Candace-2: Are you guys all right?
Phineas-2: We're fine, but cyborg animals have captured Perry.
Candace-2: The robot ants must have been a diversion. (turns on her cell phone) Monogram, we just got ambushed at the picnic. This has Doofenshmirtz written all over it.
Major Monogram-2: (on screen) Well, that's impossible. He's right here in our detention facility. I-I-I just played checkers with him. (He cheats, by the way.)
Candace-2: These giant ants didn't send themselves!
Phineas-2: Ask him about the cyborg animal agents!
Major Monogram-2: The what?! Was one of them a panda and the other one of those shaky rat dogs?
Phineas-2: Yeah, yeah, where'd they come from?
Major Monogram-2: Ah, well, I didn't want to say anything before, but we kind of lost track of some of the agents when Doof took over.
Candace-2: How many did you lose?
Major Monogram-2: Carl, hand me that roster. (Carl-2 gives him a notepad) Let's see, including Agent P... (He hums the ABC song.) ♪ A-B-C-D, hmm, hmm, hmm... ♪
Carl-2: 26, sir.
Major Monogram-2: 26!
Phineas-2: Ferb, if we can access Perry's location chip, maybe we can ambush those cyborgs and rescue Perry.
Candace-2: Yeah, no way! You guys are staying here where it's safe.
Phineas-2: Candace, we can handle this. Who was it that got past the security grid to free you from Doof's tower?
Candace-2: Okay, but take the Firestorm Girls. It could get hairy. And while you do that, I'll go find out who's behind all this.
Phineas-2: Come on, Ferb!
(Cut to OWCA's high security prison. The doors open and Candace-2 steps inside. She walks up to Doof-2's cell to see him playing with his toy train.)
Doofenshmirtz-2: Ah, Choo-Choo, look! We have company!
Candace-2: All right, Doofenshmirtz, what do you know about robotic picnic ants and a fist-full of cyborgs?
Doofenshmirtz-2: Ants at a picnic? So it's a...it's a rhetorical question, is it?
Candace-2: Don't play smart with me, villain. You're behind the attack at the park. Now, spill it!
Doofenshmirtz-2: What? You're blaming me? I-I-I've been locked up in here with Choo-Choo. Isn't that right, Choo-Choo? Yes. Yes, it is. See? H-He'll provide an alibi.
Candace-2: Don't lie to me! There's Doof-tech scattered all over that park.
Doofenshmirtz-2: Well, it wasn't me. There is, however, another Doofenshmirtz.
Candace-2: Vanessa! I knew it!
Doofenshmirtz-2: No, no, not Vanessa. She's just in high school. And she doesn't show any aptitude for evil. As a parent, I'm really disappointed. No, I'm-I'm talking about the other other Doofenshmirtz. Charlene! (whip pan to a photo of Charlene-2) ♪ Bum bum bum! ♪
Candace-2: And who is that?
Doofenshmirtz-2: Charlene Doofenshmirtz. She's my ex-wife. I-I guess you guys have never met. That kinda takes away the drama of the reveal. But it's her.

Part 2
(Scene opens on an alleyway. Peter the Pandaborg scans the area and gets the other animal cyborgs to follow him. Cut to Perry the Platyborg captured.)
Perry-2: (Chatters angrily)
(The cyborg who was once Agent D notices a metallic bone behind him. He bites at it and the bone becomes a muzzle on his mouth and gets captured underground. Cut to Ferb-2 peering out of a manhole. Cut to another area where Buford-2 scatters chicken feed and nails by a hole. The Chickenborg comes up to the feed and pecks at it. Buford-2 snatches the Chickenborg. Phineas-2, Ferb-2 and the Firestorm Girls surround the animal-borgs.)
Isabella-2: Pinky! You're alive!
(Pinky the Chihuahuaborg growls at his former owner and a blade comes out of his head.)
Isabella-2: Don't you remember me?
(Pinky-2 kicks Isabella-2.)
Isabella-2: Apparently not.
(Peter the Pandaborg comes behind them and attacks Adyson-2, Isabella-2, and Ginger-2.)
Phineas-2: We're gonna get you outta here, Perry!
(Cut back to Isabella-2 fighting Peter-2. Cut to Phineas-2 prying off Perry-2's robotic trap. Phineas-2 sits on Perry-2's shoulders and they jet off.)
Phineas-2: We got Perry! Everybody fall back!
Buford-2: Now this is as much fun as bustin' rocks for the state!
(Cut to Peter-2 catching Ferb-2 under the manhole. Peter-2 jumps into the manhole.)
(Cut to an interrogation room. Doof-2 is in the room while Monogram-2 and Carl-2 are on the other side.)
Major Monogram-2: We've had Doofenshmirtz moved to this interrogation room so Candace Flynn can question him thoroughly.
Carl-2: Are you sure he can't see you?
Major Monogram-2: It's a one-way mirror. Here, watch this. (He makes a face at Doof-2.)
Doofenshmirtz-2: You know, I can see you!
Major Monogram-2: Oh, maybe it's just that he can't hear us.
Doofenshmirtz-2: I can hear you, too!
Major Monogram-2: Huh. Maybe I just don't know how this one-way mirror thing works.
(A couple of movers walk in carrying a piece of glass.)
Mover: Comin' through.
Major Monogram-2: Oh, okay. Now I'm embarrassed.
(The glass is placed on the window.)
(Cut to the other side where Doof-2 admires his reflection.)
Candace-2: Alright, knock it off, glamour boy.
Doofenshmirtz-2: I just haven't seen a mirror for two months. Did my hair always look like this?
Candace-2: Just park your caboose in that chair.
Doofenshmirtz-2: Choo-Choo is not a caboose. It's an engine.
Candace-2: Clam it, wise guy! You know why I'm here and you better cooperate, because there are worse things than sittin' in a cold, dank prison cell with your little choo-choo train.
Doofenshmirtz-2: Like what?
Candace-2: Like sitting in a cold, dank prison cell without your little choo-choo train.
Doofenshmirtz-2: You wouldn't!
Candace-2: Try me.
Doofenshmirtz-2: Alright, I'll talk.
Candace-2: Tell me about your ex-wife, Charlene.
Doofenshmirtz-2: What do you wanna know?
Candace-2: (slams her Bo staff on the table) Where's her hideout?
Doofenshmirtz-2: Sheesh! She's got a penthouse uptown. You can't miss it. It has "Charlene" written in bright lights across the top of it.
Candace-2: How do I get in?
Doofenshmirtz-2: You would have to pass through the identification scrutinizer. Only a Doofenshmirtz can get through.
Candace-2: Lucky for us, we got one of those.
Doofenshmirtz-2: Yeah. Oh! You mean me, right?
(Cut to the Resistance's underground lair.)
Phineas-2: Dr. Baljeet, we're back and we have Perry!
Dr. Baljeet: That is great. And I think I figured out how to get this giant ant going again.
Phineas-2: Great! So everything's going to plan?
Doofenshmirtz-2: (offscreen) Hey, kids! (cut to reveal Doof-2 on a dolly cuffed and facemasked) Where do you keep the silverware?
Isabella-2, Holly-2 and Adyson-2: (gasp)
Isabella-2: What's he doing here?!
Candace-2: At ease. He's still a prisoner. I'm just using him to get into Charlene's penthouse.
Phineas-2: Wow, cool restraints.
Candace-2: Actually, he asked for this stuff.
Doofenshmirtz-2: The mask makes me sound all creepy. Here, check this out. Fava beans... Fava...
Candace-2: Okay, that's enough. Hey, where's Ferb?
Phineas-2: Oh, well, I'm sure he'd just—
Candace-2: Ugh! We don't have time to wait for him. We gotta get over to Charlene's. Phineas, Perry, you're with me.
Doofenshmirtz-2: Fava beans... Heh heh heh heh...
(Cut to:)
♪ Charleeeeeene's Nolongermarriedtodoofenshmirtz Penthoooooouuuuse ♪
Candace-2: (to Doof-2) Now, you, do what you have to do to get us in.
Doofenshmirtz-2: Okay. Okay. (He puts his hand on the scanner, then his eye in the retina scanner.) Aaahhh... (A machine scans his tongue and ear.)
Candace-2: Wow, the identity scrutinizer is really thorough.
(Cut to reveal Doof-2 scanning his butt.)
Doofenshmirtz-2: You have no idea. (Ding! The doors open) Come along, people.
(Cut to inside the penthouse.)
Vanessa-2: Uh, Mom, Tony Marzulo asked me out to the movies. Can I go?
Charlene-2: (getting her nails filed by a rat-borg) Didn't your father banish him?
Vanessa-2: Yeah, but Dad banished every boy that asked me to the movies. Besides, Dad's no longer in power.
Charlene-2: The day isn't over yet, dear.
Vanessa-2: But, Mom...
Charlene-2: I don't know. (to the Rat-borg) What do you think?
Rat-borg: (squeaks)
Charlene-2: There's your answer.
Vanessa-2: Uh, thanks?
(Cut to Candace-2 looking behind the door.)
Candace-2: Okay, fellas. There she is. Let's get her attention. (She swipes some plates off the shelf behind her with her Bo staff and the plates shatter into pieces.)
Charlene-2: What the heck is goin' on in there?!
Candace-2: (bursting through the door) We got you now, Charlene! Your evil days are over!
Charlene-2: Oh, how sweet! Do come in and thank you for returning my husband.
Candace-2: Husband? I thought you two were divorced.
Charlene-2: It was all a ruse, honey.
Candace-2: Wait, you two are pretending to be divorced? Why would you do that?
Charlene-2: Naive child, let me explain.
(Song: All the Convoluted Reasons We Pretend to be Divorced)
Charlene-2: ♪ When a dictator gets deposed, ♪
♪ And then he's thrown into the DOC... ♪
Doofenshmirtz-2: ♪ Oy vey! ♪
Charlene-2: ♪ His wife is thrown in right beside him ♪
♪ Under key and lock. ♪
♪ So to avoid a situation ♪
♪ With such limited appeal... ♪
Doofenshmirtz-2: ♪ Me and Mrs. Doofenshmirtz, ♪
♪ We struck a little deal. ♪
Charlene-2: ♪ We told everyone around us ♪
♪ We had split. ♪
Doofenshmirtz-2: ♪ Yes, we were through! ♪
♪ So, if they came to haul me off, ♪
♪ They wouldn't get her, too. ♪
Charlene-2: ♪ There's that and then there's also tax ♪
♪ Advantages, of course. ♪
Doofenshmirtz-2 and Charlene-2: ♪ All the convoluted reasons ♪
♪ We pretend to be divorced. ♪
♪ We get double the amount ♪
♪ Of discount coupons in the mail. ♪
♪ We have twice the junk to offer ♪
♪ In our annual yard sale. ♪
♪ We each have our separate bathrooms, ♪
♪ Bedrooms, living rooms, and dens, ♪
♪ We see each other all the time ♪
♪ But through a telescopic lens. ♪
Charlene-2: ♪ We don't agree on restaurants ♪
♪ Or where to holiday. ♪
Doofenshmirtz-2: ♪ But now for those activities ♪
♪ We go our separate ways. ♪
Doofenshmirtz-2 and Charlene-2: ♪ We spend so little time together, ♪
♪ Conversation's never forced. ♪
♪ All the convoluted reasons ♪
♪ We pretend to be divorced. ♪
Candace-2: Okay, I get it, you're still married. But why would you send the ants to the picnic? You had to know we'd come after you.
Charlene-2: Of course. And I also knew you would use Heinz to get in the building, bringing my husband back to me and getting you here, so I could get the drop on you.
Candace-2: A lot of convoluted reasons there, too.
Charlene-2: We've got another song! (The music starts up again.)
Candace-2: No no no, we're good. (The music warps down.)
Charlene-2: And now, children, we have prepared a nice cozy prison cell for you. (The animal cyborgs surround them.)
Candace-2: All the animal agents!
Charlene-2: Wait, you haven't seen my newest one!
(Ferb-2 walks in wearing sunglasses. He takes them off to reveal one of his eyes is now a cyborg eye.)
Candace-2: (gasps offscreen) You villain! You turned my brother into a cyborg!
Charlene-2: Ferb-borg, relieve Candace of her weapon. (to Peter the Pandaborg) Take them to the holding cell to await cyborg reprogramming. (they leave) Oh, it's so good to have a cyborg who can actually speak.
Ferb-2: Well, I usually say only one line per day.
Charlene-2: One line, really? Why?
Ferb-2: (blinks)
Charlene-2: Seriously? That was it?
Ferb-2: (blinks)
Doofenshmirtz-2: Eh. Weird kid.
Charlene-2: Well, Heinz, shall we retake over the Tri-State Area now?
Doofenshmirtz-2: Actually, I-I-I don't really wanna be an evil dictator anymore. I've got everything I need right here. (He gives Choo-Choo to Charlene-2.) My Choo-Choo, my family, this lovely penthouse, my freedom and... (Cut to outside as Choo-Choo is thrown out the window.) Choo-Choo!!! Backstory reforming... Evil returning... Aw, yeah! I'm back, baby!!!
(Cut to Phineas-2, Candace-2, and Perry-2 in solitary confinement.)
Candace-2: Ugh, I'm sorry I got you into this, Phineas.
Phineas-2: Oh, that's okay, Candace.
Candace-2: But we're gonna have to be strong. Jail is a mental game. They're going to try to break us, you'll see. Seconds become hours, hours become years, until the mere thought of freedom flutters out of our consciousness like a dying butterfly. (The cell door opens.)
Phineas-2: You're right, that did seem like forever.
Candace-2: Look! It's the Ferb-borg! Get behind me, Phineas! I'll hold him off as long as I can!
Ferb-2: (takes off his disguise) Please, Candace, you're being dramatic. (frees Perry-2)
Candace-2: What? Ferb? You're not a cyborg?
Phineas-2: Sorry we had to fool you like that, Candace, but we needed you to be convincing.
Candace-2: But why?
Phineas-2: Ferb figured that if Doof and Charlene thought that they had the leader of the Resistance and the Platyborg under lock and key, they would devote all their attention to the frontal attack. That way, we could come up from behind and—
Candace-2: Wait, what frontal attack?
(Crash!)
Phineas-2: That one.
(Cut to outside the penthouse where the mechanical ant is butting his head against the side of the building.)
Dr. Baljeet: (offscreen) That is not how to make it climb, Buford.
Buford-2: Oh, you wanna climb the building!
(The ant begins climbing up the building.)
Doofenshmirtz-2: Hey, looks like someone's comin' late to the party.
Charlene-2: That's okay, dear. I've got a little present for our unwelcome guest. (Puts a large metal capsule on her right arm.)
Doofenshmirtz-2: Wow, y-you know, Charlene, you're really on top of things here. Tomorrow, I'm taking you shopping for a new evil pantsuit.
(Cut back to outside. The ant reaches the top.)
Isabella-2: Alright, everybody! Go go go go go!
(Charlene-2 shoots a laser out of her capsule and the ant falls down.)
Isabella-2: So much for our ride home.
Doofenshmirtz-2: Wow, nice shot!
Charlene-2: (on a walkie-talkie) Attention, all animal cyborgs, attend to our guests!
(The animal cyborgs all charge out. Except for Terry the Turtleborg who slowly jogs out to tuba music.)
(Cut back to Isabella-2 and the others.)
Dr. Baljeet: All we have to do is get these magnetic deprogramming chips near the cyborgs' frontal lobes and they will no longer be evil.
Isabella-2: How do we do that?
Buford-2: (getting a fedora out of a bag) Look, we sewed 'em into these little hats.
Isabella-2: Aw, that's so cute!
(Crash!)
Isabella-2: Everyone, grab a hat! We've got cyborgs to reprogram!
(Isabella-2, Buford-2, Dr. Baljeet and the Firestorm Girls each grab a fedora.)
Doofenshmirtz-2: Now finish him off! (Charlene-2 is about to shoot but Candace-2 drops down.) Ahhh...
(Candace-2 knocks the capsule off Charlene-2's arm.)
Candace-2: Give it up, Charlene!
Charlene-2: Seems to me you're still outnumbered.
(Doof-2 runs behind a chair.)
Charlene-2: Seriously, how did he ever run this place without me?
(Cut back to Isabella-2 and the rest.)
Isabella-2: Alright, fan out! (Isabella-2 runs up to Pinky the Chihuahuaborg.)
Pinky the Chihuahuaborg: (growls)
Isabella-2: Pinky, I just wanna...
(Pinky-2 blasts at her.)
Isabella-2: Okay, so you're not a hat guy. Take it easy.
(Phineas-2 pulls a sneak attack and puts the fedora on Pinky-2. The hat electrocutes the cyborg gear and breaks it off him turning him good again.)
Pinky-2: (pants happily)
Isabella-2: Pinky! (she hugs him) Good to have you back! (kisses him)
(Cut to Candace-2 and Charlene-2)
Candace-2: Surrender or there'll be big trouble.
Charlene-2: Oh, I think I'll go with that second thing you mentioned.
(Peter the Pandaborg throws a Bo staff Charlene-2's way. Charlene-2 and Candace-2 fight.)
(Cut to Holly-2 fighting the Kittyborg. Gretchen-2 puts the fedora on the Kittyborg. Cut to the Dogborg. Ginger-2 taps his shoulder and he looks while Adyson-2 puts the fedora on his head. Cut to Peter the Pandaborg fighting Ferb. Ferb gets cornered but Perry-2 jumps in to block. Perry-2 fights Peter-2. Gretchen-2 comes in running after the Chickenborg. Cut back to Charlene-2 and Candace-2's fight.)
Charlene-2: End of the line, kid! What a shame! I'll make ya an offer. I could get rid of you right now or you could join me. You could be the leader of my cyborg army.
Candace-2: (smiling) Actually, it looks like your cyborg army may have changed their minds.
Charlene-2: Wait, what are you talking about? (Agent R-2 breaks off one of Charlene-2's fingernails.) My manicure!! (she trips over a piece of equipment) Whoa!
Candace-2: It's all over, Charlene. (The reformed animal agents surround her.) Now surrender.
Charlene-2: Ha! (presses a remote causing another capsule to come out of the floor) A Doofenshmirtz never surrenders! We fight until the last man!
Doofenshmirtz-2: Hey, wait a minute! I'm the last man! D-Don't I get a say in this?
Charlene-2: Oh, come on, honey. It'll be fun.
Vanessa-2: Alright, hold it! Everybody just stop! (opening the animal agents like a door) Excuse me. (to Candace-2) Can I talk to my parents? Listen, Mom, Dad, come here. You guys, I'm only gonna say this once. (breathes) RUN!!!
(Cut to Peter the Pandaborg coming out of the rubble. The Doofenshmirtzes escape on a hovercar and Peter the Pandaborg grabs onto the end.)
Vanessa-2: Mom, Dad, this is Tony Marzulo.
Tony: Hey, Mr. and Mrs. D.
Doofenshmirtz-2: Hey, didn't I banish you?
Charlene-2: Yeah, honey, you did, but nobody saw it.
(Cut to the backyard where a reunion for all the OWCA agents is being held.)
Candace-2: Academy graduates, Doofenshmirtz is still out there and no doubt he's planning a comeback. But so are we. We now have you, the animal agents of OWCA, who will, without a doubt, prevail. So as I step down from my position as head of the Resistance, (Monogram-2 and Carl-2 react to this in fear) I congratulate you all and wish you luck.
Major Monogram-2: Whoa, wait! You're stepping down?
Candace-2: It's okay, Major. You've got your animal agents back. I think you can handle it.
Major Monogram-2: But...
Candace-2: Don't worry. (She gives Monogram-2 her Bo staff.) If you ever get in a pinch, you know where to find me. Now if you'll excuse me, there's something I've been putting off that I need to take care of.
Major Monogram-2: Where is she going?
Isabella-2: Unless I miss my guess, I'd say she's making room in her life for other things.
(Cut to a wide shot of Candace-2 walking up to Jeremy-2, who is doing pull-ups.)
Jeremy-2: 15...16...17... (Candace-2 joins him) 18... Hey!
Candace-2: Hey, yourself.

End credits
Charlene-2: ♪ We told everyone around us ♪
♪ We had split. ♪
Doofenshmirtz-2: ♪ Yes, we were through! ♪
♪ So, if they came to haul me off, ♪
♪ They wouldn't get her, too. ♪
Charlene-2: ♪ There's that and then there's also tax ♪
♪ Advantages, of course. ♪
Doofenshmirtz-2 and Charlene-2: ♪ All the convoluted reasons ♪
♪ We pretend to be divorced. ♪
♪ We get double the amount ♪
♪ Of discount coupons in the mail. ♪
♪ We have twice the junk to offer ♪
♪ In our annual yard sale. ♪
♪ We each have our separate bathrooms, ♪
♪ Bedrooms, living rooms, and dens, ♪
♪ We see each other all the time ♪
♪ But through a telescopic lens. ♪



(Scene opens up on Danville High School)
Becky: Hey, Vanessa! How was your summer?
Vanessa: Oh, the basic. Pretty cool when I was at my mom's and okay when I was at my dad's. Did you know in July, he actually removed all the blue from all the paintings at the museum? All the blue!
Lacie: Omigosh, I totally saw that! Picasso's whole Blue Period is just beige now.
Vanessa: Yep. That was my dad.
(Johnny comes in.)
Johnny: Sigh.
Vanessa: Hi, Johnny.
Lacie: It looks like he didn't take your breaking up very well.
Johnny: (offscreen) Sigh.
Vanessa: It wasn't like we were going out that long, Johnny!
Johnny: Just take the dissection tray and use its wax foundation to cradle my broken heart, Vanessa!
Male Student 1: Let it go, bro.
Vanessa: And to think I wanted to come back to school for a sense of normalcy.
Principal Lang: Good morning, people. As you know, there have been some staff changes. If you'll sit down, I will introduce you to your new science teacher...
Doofenshmirtz: Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz!
Lacie: What?
(Dramatic sting and quick zoom to Vanessa's scared face.)
(Song: Doof 101)
Danny Jacob: ♪ He was the king of evil science ♪
♪ Until things went a little awry ♪
Laura Dickinson: ♪ Now he's turning over a brand new leaf ♪
♪ And he's not so bad a guy ♪
Danny and Laura: ♪ Now he's got a second chance ♪
♪ And his new life's just begun ♪
♪ C'mon, it's gonna be fun ♪
♪ He's starting over at one ♪
♪ Doof 101! ♪
♪ (Doof, Doof, Doof 101) ♪
♪ (Doof, Doof, Doof...) ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ Oh, we're gonna have a ball ♪
♪ All the things I'm gonna show you ♪
♪ And this all takes place in fall ♪
♪ So don't let the timeline throw you! ♪
♪ I'm starting over at one ♪
Doofenshmirtz, Danny Jacob and Laura Dickinson: ♪ Doof 101! ♪
Principal Lang: Dr. Doofenshmirtz is here on a trial basis.
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, no, we already had the trial. The judge gave me a choice of doing hard time or community service. So, here I am, ready to impart upon these young, sponge-like minds all my vast knowledge of evil sci—I-I mean science. That's right. Regular old science. No evil at all. In fact, I've crossed out the word "Evil" whenever it appears in my old textbooks. So, this should be a piece of cake. (to Vanessa) Hi, sweetie-kins! (Vanessa slams her head on her desk.) Thank you, Principal Lang. I can take it from here.
Principal Lang: Just so you know, Heinz, I've got my eye on you. I miss nothing.
(He backs into door and ends up in the janitor's closet. He gets back up and walks backwards out the correct door.)
Doofenshmirtz: And nice to see you, too! (to the class) Y'know, we knew each other long ago, but that's a story for another time. I'm Dr. Doofenshmirtz. (writing on the blackboard) D-O-O-F-E...
Vanessa: Dad, come here. (she grabs him out of the classroom)
Doofenshmirtz: Uh... (pops back into the frame) ...enshmirtz!
(Cut to outside the classroom.)
Vanessa: Dad, what are you doing here?
Doofenshmirtz: Isn't this great? More father-daughter time!
Vanessa: No, not at my school! Really?
Johnny: So you're Vanessa's dad? I'm Johnny.
Doofenshmirtz: Didn't she dump you?
Vanessa: We were hardly going out!
Johnny: (whining) Yes, we were!
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, girls don't like guys who are whiny. You're whiny. I get it. I get it.
Becky: Mr. Doofenshmirtz, if you're Vanessa's dad, is she gonna get, like, special treatment? I've taken extra booster classes in science to ensure my early acceptance—
Vanessa: No! No special treatment, because this is not happening!
(Lacie comes into the scene.)
Lacie: (beat) What's goin' on?
Doofenshmirtz: Everybody, back in class.
(Cut to the Principal's office.)
Mrs. Pierpoint: Principal Lang, are you brooding again?
Principal Lang: Why does everyone always think I'm brooding? It's my brow, isn't it?
Mrs. Pierpoint: Well...
Principal Lang: Yes, I'm brooding! It's that Heinz Doofenshmirtz! We went to community college together.
Mrs. Pierpoint: Oh.
Principal Lang: He wound up marrying Charlene, the girl that I was in love with!
Mrs. Pierpoint: Aren't they divorced now?
Principal Lang: That's not the point!
Mrs. Pierpoint: Oh, I'm sorry.
Principal Lang: How could she have preferred him to me?
Mrs. Pierpoint: Well, maybe it's time to give up your grudge.
Principal Lang: Give up a grudge? Never! What do you think this brow is for?
(Cut back to the classrom)
Doofenshmirtz: Let's start with genetics, the building blocks of life. Your genes determine what you will be. A...A turtle or a bird or... For instance... (plucks a hair off of Johnny)
Johnny: Ow! Hey!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, don't be a baby. You've got plenty. At least for the next ten years. Let's see genetics at work, shall we? (He puts the hair in a petrie dish, and puts the dish under a microscope.) Now, all of the information that makes this young man who and what he is is stored in these DNA strands in every cell of his body. The-The genetic code is very delicate. See, now, if we move this base pair over to here, he would have been a gorilla, or you know, maybe a lizard. Y'see, there's this whole world of things going on, too small for us to even notice.
(Pan down to reveal a small purple insect standing next to a yellow insect.)
Yellow insect: So, what are we doing here again, Napoleon?
Napoleon: (the purple insect) Well, Wendell, we're going to make contact with these magnificent giants!
Wendell: We will?
Napoleon: Yes, we will.
Wendell: Wait. Why will we?
Napoleon: To be the first ones to communicate with a alien race. Just think, Wendell, you and I and Floyd are going to go where no bug has gone be— Okay, where's Floyd? Floyd!
(A sickly green fly saunters up to the other two.)
Floyd: Sorry, sir. Ran into a spider web. Lost my wings.
Napoleon: They're behind you, Floyd.
(Floyd looks behind him.)
Floyd: I found 'em, sir.
Napoleon: So as I was saying—
Floyd: They were behind me.
Napoleon: Yes, we've established that. Continuing, we are going to make contact with the giants! But first, we must scale the Cliffs of Mahogany! (referring to the desk) This may take a few tries, but—
Wendell: Sir, let me throw it! I'm the muscle!
Napoleon: You're the muscle?
Wendell: Yes! You're the brains, I'm the muscle, and Floyd is...
Napoleon: Floyd is the ballast?
Wendell: Yes! Floyd is the ballast!
Floyd: Ooh, that sounds important.
Napoleon: Anyway, Wendell, if you're feeling muscular, be my guest.
Wendell: Stand back! (He swings the grappling hook, which is actually a string with a bent paper clip on it. The clip latches onto a beaker. The beaker tips off the desk and traps the bugs.)
Napoleon: Hmm. Well, we have a limited air supply. Floyd, stop breathing.
(Cut to the desk. Three books hit a balance, which flips up a petrie dish containing two electric needles on a string. One pin latches onto a frog and the other onto one potato on a potato powered clock. The frog becomes alive and kicks the petrie dish off the microscope. Doof watches as the dish hits Johnny's face.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, that's unfortunate. (takes the dish off) Uh, hopefully, the DNA in the petrie dish won't combine with... (Johnny starts growing a lizard tail) Oh! Oh! No, see, it's... It's happening already.
Johnny: (looks behind him) Uh... (begins transforming and howls like a gorilla. His right arm becomes a gorilla arm.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, so everyone pay attention to this. This is what I was talking about. The DNA of a human is only a few base pairs from that of a monkey. (Johnny's left arm becomes a lizard's arm.) Or... or a reptile for that matter.
Johnny: (growls and runs away)
Doofenshmirtz: See? I told you. A whiner.
(Cut to the hallway. The deformed lizard-gorilla-teen is running down.)
Johnny: What is happening?!
(Close up on a security camera.)
(Cut to OWCA headquarters where Carl and Monogram are watching Johnny run.)
Carl: Uh, sir? I think you should take a look at this.
Major Monogram: Great googly moogly! I was afraid it might come to this.
(Cut to Perry sleeping in the backyard. His wristwatch beeps.)
Perry: (chatters tiredly)
Major Monogram: Agent P, pick up! (turns over sleepily and scratches his rear) Agent P, please pick up! (Perry finally picks up) Ah! So sorry, Agent P, I... I know that this is your time to enjoy some well-deserved rest, but something's gone wrong in Doof's class, and, well, the OWCA work-release program doesn't need this kind of scandal. Whadaya say, P?
(Perry puts on his fedora, goes into the tree and into his hovercar.)
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah ♪
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah ♪
♪ Scary teenage monster ♪
(Cut to Becky at the door.)
Becky: Guys, Johnny's running wild out there!
Doofenshmirtz: Aha!
Vanessa: Dad, what are you doing?
Doofenshmirtz: It's one of Johnny's hairs. It's loaded with his DNA. With this, I can mix up an antidote to...
(Dramatic sting. Cut to Agent P at the door.)
Gideon: (offscreen) He shapeshifted again!
Doofenshmirtz: No no no. This isn't Johnny. It's, uh... (whispering) Perry the Platypus, I'm glad you're here. Could you go find Johnny and bring him back to the classroom? He's got greasy hair and he's wearing a trench coat. Mmm, and he's also part-gorilla, part-lizard. You can't miss him. (out loud) Class, Mr. Platypus is the...occasional assistant teacher.
Male Student 2: Is that a real platypus?
Doofenshmirtz: No! It's a.... it's a man. It's a deformed, tiny...turquoise man. Vanessa, take some of your friends here, uh, uh, Ponytails, Spikey Head, Tweedle-Tie and go get Johnny.
Vanessa: Hi, "Mr. Platypus".
(They leave.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, and the rest of you, Muscles, Ropey Face, Slap-Happy, Buzzy-Pants, stay here and help me with the antidote.
Ropey-Face: Wait, why am I Ropey-Face?
Doofenshmirtz: Take my advice: Own it.
(Cut to Johnny still running down the halls. He goes into the gym.)
Vanessa: Johnny? Er, "Creature formerly known as Johnny"?
Johnny: (hiding under the bleachers) Go away!
Vanessa: Johnny, you've gotta come out! My dad can help you!
Johnny: You hate me!
Vanessa: I don't hate you. We can be friends.
Johnny: (sees Perry) Huh? Whoa! What is that thing?!
Vanessa: He's just a tiny turqouise m— AAAAH!! (Johnny carries Vanessa off like Fay Wray.)
Johnny: Vanessa!
Vanessa: Perry!!
(Perry shoots a net at Johnny and it latches onto his tail. Johnny escapes the premises with Vanessa in tow. The rest of the students follow Perry out.)
(Cut to the garbage can where the three insects are sitting.)
Napoleon: Expedition journal, entry three. We have bivouacked on a landing halfway up the cliffs.
Wendell: I don't remember bivouacking.
Floyd: I went before we left.
Napoleon: Oy. Bivouac. It's a makeshift camp. That—Look, it's not important. What I'm worried about is, what are we going to tell the giants about ourselves?
Wendell: Floyd throws up on his food.
Floyd: It's true. I do.
Napoleon: Let's not lead with that.
Floyd: I can also smell through my hair.
Napoleon: But what do we say to an alien species to make them understand our entire culture? Our very place in this vast cosmos?
(Zoom out. One of the students opens the garbage can to throw out something and the bugs fall off and end up on the ring of the rope on the Periodic Table screen.)
Napoleon: What is happening?!
(They fly off the ring and bump into the model of the solar system and end up splatting on the ground.)
Floyd: I think I just bivouacked again.
(Cut to Doof instructing Becky holding a dropper over a beaker carrying a liquid formula of some sort.)
Doofenshmirtz: Careful. Careful. Everything depends on getting the mixture precise. (Becky drops the liquid into the beaker. Doof stirs it with a straw and drinks it.) Mmm. Excellent. Now that's how you make a Shirley Temple. Hey, Muscles, how's the antidote coming?
Muscles: (wearing a hazmat suit and carrying a radioactive stick) Al...most... done. (drops it into the graduated cylinder and it explodes a bit. He pours it into the petri dish and Doof gets some of it with a needle.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, we're all set. Now, where's whiny reptile boy?
Vanessa: (offscreen) Somebody help me!
(Cut to Johnny carrying Vanessa up the clock tower.)
Doofenshmirtz: (offscreen) He has Vanessa! (to the rest of the class) Who's up for a field trip?
(Cut to outside Perry leads the class out.)
Johnny: Sanctuary!
Vanessa: Oh, you're such a drama queen. See, this... This is why we broke up!
(Cut to below. Perry takes off.)
Ropey-Face: Wait, where's he going?
(Doof makes his way through the crowd with the needle.)
Doofenshmirtz: Alright, now, how're we gonna... Nobody has a crossbow, do they?
Becky: I do! (beat) What? Why, is that weird?
(Doof takes the crossbow and Perry comes down in his hovercar.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, great! Thanks! (climbs in) Hey, you got new cup holders.
Ropey-Face: Whoa! Mr. Platypus has a cool ride!
Doofenshmirtz: Hang on, sweetie! (to Perry) Well, I guess it's just like the old saying, "You turn a guy into a gorilla-lizard, and he carries your daughter up a bell tower." It never really made sense to me before, but now I guess I... (Johnny pushes a bell off and it lands on Perry with a long DONG!)
(Cut to Principal Lang feeding some fish and looking at his watch.)
Principal Lang: It is not one o'clock!
(Whip pan to John P. Tristate Elementary. We hear the standard opening guitar riff.)
Sally: Hey, guys! How's it coming? Recess is almost over!
(Cut to reveal Phineas and Ferb modifying their playground.)
Phineas: Almost done!
(People scream offscreen.)
Phineas: (pointing) Ferb, look!
Vanessa: Johnny, put me down!
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, would you just stand still?! I can't get a clear shot!
Phineas: Aw man! I can't wait 'til we get to high school! It looks like so much fun!
(Cut back to Perry's hovercar. Doof gets the bell off of Perry's head.)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus, hold still! I'll get it—
Vanessa: Dad, do something!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, yes, yes! Hold on a second! (He attempts to fire the crossbow, but he and the bell topple off of the hovercar.)
Vanessa: Dad!!
(The bell lands in the ground and Doof lands in the bell. The bell leans over and the crossbow fires. Vanessa catches the needle and sticks it in Johnny's lizard arm. He starts to transform back, but drops Vanessa. Perry comes to her rescue. Johnny fully goes back to normal but falls off the tower. Vanessa jumps out of the hovercar and saves Johnny, and the net that is still attached to Johnny latches onto the hovercar. The students cheer from below. Perry drops them off and the students catch Johnny and Vanessa.)
Johnny: Vanessa, you saved my life!
Vanessa: Oh, please don't read anything into this.
Johnny: There's still hope!!!
Vanessa: What did I just say?!
Doofenshmirtz: Alright, everyone, back to class. Nothing to see here. Just a giant bell.
(Principal Lang comes out and sees the bell on the ground.)
Principal Lang: What in the bell?
(Cut to the insects now on the desk.)
Napoleon: We've done it! We've reached the summit! Unfurl the banner, boys, and follow me! This is it! My entire existence has been leading to this moment, so that I can say... "Weclom Ginats!" (realizes what the banner says) Wait, what? "Weclom Ginats?!"
Wendell: What does that mean?
Napoleon: Exactly my point. What does our "Welcome Giants" banner actually say?
Wendell: Oh, yeah, sorry, we spelled it phonetically.
Napoleon: NO YOU DIDN'T!!!! Phonetically, it spells, "Weclom Ginats!" Come on, guys! This is our only chance to make a good first imp—
(Doof's Evil Science book squishes the bugs. Zoom out to the class.)
Doofenshmirtz: And that, class, is DNA in action.
Principal Lang: (bursting through the door) Aha!
(The school bell rings.)
Doofenshmirtz: That's it for today. Class dismissed.
(The students walk out chattering.)
Doofenshmirtz: Bye-bye, now.
Vanessa: (walking up to her father) Dad? (sighs) So, you're my teacher now.
Doofenshmirtz: I'm your teacher now.
Vanessa: But, we're not gonna do...all of..."this"...every day, right?
Doofenshmirtz: I'll try. But you know, (to the tune of the Theme song) ♪ there's 261 days 'til next summer vacation ♪, and, you know, a lot can happen. Just saying.
(Zoom in on the Evil Science book. Napoleon comes out from under it.)
Napoleon: Ugh. I do believe I've fractured my exoskeleton.
Wendell: And I bivouacked!



Part 1
(Dan Povenmire and Jeff "Swampy" Marsh are seated in front of a large pile of mail, after an image of Phineas and Ferb is shown)
Dan Povenmire: Hey, I'm Dan.
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: And I'm Swampy. We're the co-creators of Phineas and Ferb.
Dan Povenmire: The show that you're probably watching right now.
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: Hopefully.
Dan Povenmire: We get letters from kids all over the world asking us questions about the show, that we...
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: No, that's not actually true. We don't get a lot of actual, physical "written on paper" letters...
Dan Povenmire: No, no. That's true... That's true
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: ...what we get is a lot of e-mails. Digital, electronic..
Dan Povenmire: Yeah. Actually, all of the e-mails we've ever received fit on this flash drive right here. (He holds up a flash drive) But that's not as impressive as this... (Dan motions to the large pile of mail sitting behind them)
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: No, this stack of, of letters here is much more impressive. This is a prop, though made mostly of, uh, foam, fiberglass, that kind of thing.
Dan Povenmire: Yeah. Not to say that we don't actually get letters from people. Physical letters. Ih-like, this one, for instance, from– from Becky. This is a question we get all the time. "Are we ever going to see Perry the Platypus get a girlfriend?"
Dan and Swampy: No!
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: No, not gonna happen.
Dan Povenmire: No.
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: Here's another one. This one is from, uh, Donny. Says: "Are we ever going to see Phineas and Ferb as teenagers?"
Dan Povenmire: Yes. Yes, we are.
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: In fact, we're gonna see it right now.
Dan Povenmire: This episode is set ten years in the future. So don't let it confuse you. Actually, uh, to avoid confusion, let's, uh, let's just synchronize our calendars right....
Dan and Swampy: Now!
(Teenaged Phineas and Ferb are relaxing on their beds in their room.)
Phineas: Ugh! I'm running out of time, Ferb. I gotta choose a school. Do I stay local or go abroad? Trade school? Art school? Come on, Ferb. Help me make a decision.
Ferb: Get in the booth.
(Phineas walks over to a booth which contains numerous college acceptance letters)
Phineas: Oh, cool! All my college acceptance letters! I guess we're gonna let fate decide this one.
(Ferb pushes a button which activates the booth, sending the letters flying around Phineas)
Phineas: (He grabs one) Okay, Kjobstaad Academy. Uh, which one was that again?.
Ferb: Mmm...great physics department, Norway.
Phineas: Hmm...Don't feel I'm ready for those cold winters.
(Ferb activates the booth again)
Phineas: Okay. Comedy Traffic School. Well, if it's fate...
(Ferb pushes the button a third time.)
Phineas: Yeah, things seemed a lot easier when we were young and waiting for our voices to drop.
Baljeet: (in a deep voice) Hey, guys. (he coughs and returns to his normal voice) Oh! Something was caught in my throat. So, still trying to figure out where to go to school?
Phineas: Workin' on it.
Baljeet: I was just giving Buford some pointers on collegiate life. Since I've already graduated and have been accepted as a professor, I could pull some strings and get him into my school. Just think, Buford. You could be my student! I would be the boss of you!
Buford: Don't get too excited. I'm goin' to film school. I'm concentratin' on tragedies. The story of a struggling orphan's transcendental search for meaning in a post-apocalyptic society.
Baljeet: It sounds pretentious.
Buford: Thank you. (he takes another bite out of his sandwich)
Baljeet: So, Ferb, you're off to school in England?
Phineas: Yeah. He's going to Camford on Oxbury. Heh heh! "Camford on Oxbury". It sounds like a wizard school.
Ferb: It's not a wizard school. Well, there is some wizarding.
Buford: Phineas, why don't you just go there?
Baljeet: Or why not go where Candace goes to school?
Phineas: Law school? I don't know.
(At law school Candace is finishing her dissertation to a panel.)
Candace: And that concludes my dissertation on modern investigative techniques for establishing proof of guilt with or without physical evidence.
(The panel give her a standing ovation.)
Male panelist: Spectacular! I've never had a student convince me of something so completely baseless before!
Female panelist: Now I feel like busting someone.
(Back inside Phineas and Ferb's bedroom)
Phineas: Yeah, I don't know if Candace's school is the place for me. Forget the booth. I'm gonna go with my gut. (takes two envelopes) It's between these two: Danville U and Tri-State State. Both really good schools. Looks like I have some thinkin' to do.
Buford: Hey, the epic struggle of a triangle-headed boy to choose between two schools.
Baljeet: Pretentious alert.
Buford: And again, thank you.
(At the OWCA Headquarters a red light and alert go off, and a teenage Irving, now an OWCA intern, turns around to notice it. Irving dusts off the picture underneath the red light to reveal a picture of Doofenshmirtz.)
Irving: (on the phone) Sir, it's the old Evil Scientist Alert System! It's showing -inator activity on a Doctor Dooferd–...
(Carl, now much older and wearing a uniform and mustache much like Major Monogram did, cuts him off.)
Commander Carl: Doofenshmirtz‽ Great googly moogly! I though he'd given up his evil ways when we placed him as a high school science teacher. Well, it's too bad Monogram isn't around to see this.
Irving: Well, sir, he's gone to a better place.
Commander Carl: Yeah... (beat) Oh, what the heck? I'm gonna call him! (Carl dials the phone. Monogram, now retired and older, with a beard and a Hawaiian shirt is lounging on a beach.)
Monogram: Monogram.
Commander Carl: How've ya been, sir?
Monogram: Carl! I'm great! Bora Bora really is a better place. How've ya been, man?
Commander Carl: I've been well. Guess who's set off the -inator alert?
Monogram: Doofenshmirtz?
Commander Carl: Yeah.
Monogram: Heh heh. Just like old times. Go tell him "hi" for me.
Commander Carl: Of course.
(Perry is busy enjoying his own retirement, when his watch goes off.)
Commander Carl: Agent P... (Agent P picks up his bowling bag.) No, it's not bowling night! It's Doofenshmirtz. He's activated the -inator alert system. We think he may have returned to evil.
(Perry gets a worried reaction, then puts on his fedora and jet pack. He blasts off of the tree in Phineas and Ferb's backyard that had been serving as his retirement location)
(Phineas and the guys are in the kitchen.)
Baljeet: So I hear Isabella is off to Tri-State State.
Phineas: Oh, wow, really? Huh. Haven't seen much of her this summer.
Buford: (looking in the fridge) Why do parents buy such weird food? Everything's 'lite', 'low', 'non', 'free', or 'diet'.
Phineas: So she's...leaving?
Baljeet: Yes. Huh, I always thought the two of you would end up together.
Phineas: I wish. I am so in the friend zone there.
Baljeet: You are kidding, right? You do know she had a giant crush on you for ages.
Phineas: Uh...no...
Buford: Oh, come on! It was so obvious! She came over to your house every day for eleven years just to see what you were doin'!
Baljeet: When she looked at you, her pupils actually formed little hearts. Like, I do not know how that is physically possible. She changed her eyeballs!
Phineas: We— I don't believe it. Ferb? (Ferb nods.) Well, why didn't you guys ever tell me?
Baljeet: We are guys. We do not talk about feelings. (Buford shrugs in agreement) ..Did you see the new car Irving got?
Buford: Could we eat yet? I'm starvin'.
Phineas: Um, I'm sorry. I feel like my brain is broken. I-I gotta think. I'm gonna take a walk. (he leaves) See ya, guys.
Baljeet: Hmm...maybe it is not too late. We should try to get them together. You know, before Isabella leaves for school.
Buford: (after a beat) Yeah, all right.
♪ Doofenshmirtz Mmm-Mmm Incorporated! ♪
(A now grey-haired Doofenshmirtz is working on a contraption.)
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus? Eh, is it Thursday already? Hmm, well, let me go get my shoes and my ball and then... Wait, where's your stuff? (Perry points to the -inator behind Doofenshmirtz.) Huh? Oh, no that's not evil, so, so I don't think it counts. Oh, wait a minute. Did I set off the -inator alert? Oh, that is so funny. Probably scared the heck out of Commander Carl, huh? Oh, well I-I know it can look intimidating, but there's no reason to be afraid. It isn't evil. It isn't even the -inator. The -inator is this gold chain. Once it's charged, I'm going to put it around my neck, and it will activate the insecurity parts of my brain and trigger a full-blown mid-life crisis. Allow me to explain in song.
(Song: "Mid-Life Crisis")
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ All my friends have spray-on tans, ♪
♪ And they're gettin' back together with their old rock bands. ♪
♪ Yes, their bland old lives are now filled with spices. ♪
♪ They're havin' a mid-life crisis. ♪
♪ They're all gettin' sports cars and new toupees, ♪
♪ And borrowing against their IRAs. ♪
♪ I've always had more than my share of vices,♪
♪ But I never had a mid-life crisis. ♪
♪ I'm sick and tired of bein' out of the game. ♪
♪ Everyone's so discontent. I wish I felt the same. ♪
♪ It's not like my life has been a total delight. ♪
♪ But something must be wrong, 'cause I feel...all right. ♪
Kazoo solo!
(A kazoo solo commences)
♪ But now with my inator, I can be the same. ♪
♪ My crisis will put all other crises to shame. ♪
♪ But I'm tellin' ya now, that it's gonna be twice as ♪
♪ Good as any ♪
♪ Big gut suckin', sports car buyin', ♪
♪ Self-deludin', comb-over tryin', ♪
♪ Skinny jean-wearin', wrinkle denyin', ♪
♪ Bucket listin', grey hair dyin' ♪
♪ Existential mid-life crisis! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: So just let me get this thing charged up and we'll be on our way. (Doof puts on some shades and covers Perry's eyes and pushes the button and gets the chain.) Ready? (He puts the chain around his neck and gets electrocuted. Perry walks offscreen to get a defibrillator, but Doof comes to when Perry arrives.) Wow, I feel pretty energized! I wanna do something exciting and fun and...and also incredibly stupid! Come on, Perry the Platypus, let's go have an adventure.
(As Doof walks off, Perry looks at the camera with a concerned look.)
(At Nosh Olé, Mexican-Jewish Café.)
Holly: Ginger, are you texting Baljeet again?
Ginger: Yeah, we're at odds deciding what movie to see later. He wants to go to the one about that planet and I want to see the one with that guy.
Adyson: Well, don't fight about it. Manipulate the situation!
Holly: Manip-the-wha-?
Adyson: (sighs) Okay, ladies, listen up. Pretend you don't care about your movie, but then hint that it's playing at the theatre next to the fro-yo place he likes. The seed is planted, and he'll think it's his idea to go there.
Isabella: Hi, guys! Food's up! Aw, just think, this may be the last time I'm stuffing your faces before I'm off to school. (the phone rings) I got it, Mom! (to the girls) Anyway, enjoy! Gotta treat my Fireside Girl alums right. (she leaves)
Ginger: Hey hey! Baljeet says okay to my movie!
Adyson: Mm-hmm. Works every time.
Gretchen: Where is Baljeet anyway?
Ginger: Oh, he's over at Phineas's.
Holly and Katie: Oh, Phineas...
Gretchen: It's too bad Isabella and Phineas never got together.
Holly: Yeah, I always thought they were meant for each other.
Adyson: Look at her. Working so hard.
(Isabella on the phone.)
Isabella: Do we have chopped liver? What do you think this place is? Chopped li— Oh, that doesn't really work.
(Back with the ladies.)
Adyson: She doesn't have time to manipulate a situation where she and Phineas can get together.
Milly: But we do!
Adyson: (to Ginger) Hey, Speedy-Thumbs, text Lover Boy and tell those guys we have a plan to get Isabella and Phineas together!
(In living room Ferb, Baljeet and Buford are eating sandwiches. Baljeet receives Ginger's text.)
Buford: Ginger texting you again?
Baljeet: Yes. The girls want to get Phineas and Isabella together.
Buford: Wasn't that our idea?
Baljeet: Yes, but now I've got to write her back in a passive way that makes her think it's really her idea. She is trying to manipulate the situation. (He takes another bite of his sandwich) It is how we love.
(A black-haired Doof is having fun on a jet ski, following by Perry on a small motorboat.)
Doofenshmirtz: Woo hoo hoo hoo! How's the dye job holding up, Perry the Platypus?! Isn't this great?! If I had known it was this much fun— (Doofenshmirtz smashes into sailboat.) Hey, this is one of those fancy sailing yachts!
(Song: The Ballad of Badbeard (instrumental))
Doofenshmirtz: We could sail around the world in this thing! We could, we could visit exotic ports, fight pirates! We'd be like a couple of seafaring Huck Finns and the ocean would be our ho–! (The boat sinks, and Doof's black hair dye evaporates. He gets back up.) Or maybe we could wrestle some alligators! No, wait, even better, sports car! (He swims to shore, with Perry following.)
(Nana Shapiro is about to mail a package when Phineas walks by)
Phineas: Here, let me get that for you, Nana Shapiro.
Nana Shapiro: Phineas Flynn! Oh, look at you, so tall and handsome! You're going to college I hear! Oh, how time flies. Where're you going to school?
Phineas: I haven't really decided.
Nana Shapiro: Isabella came over to say goodbye this morning. She's off to—
Phineas: This morning? But her school doesn't start for two more weeks!
Nana Shapiro: Oh, honey, didn't you know? She's leaving today! As soon as she's done with work. Something about needing to—
Phineas: Today‽ But—
Nana Shapiro: Phineas, look at me. If you have anything you need to say to her, you'd better go over to the restaurant and say it. Her summer's almost over.
Phineas: (a pried pause) I— You're right. Thanks! (he runs off)
Nana Shapiro: The restaurant is that way! (She points in the diction opposite of where Phineas ran) 
Phineas: Thanks again! (He runs off in the other direction)

Part 2
(In the Flynn-Fletcher backyard.)
Ginger: Isn't this fun? It's like when we were kids! Building stuff in Phineas and Ferb's backyard!
Baljeet: We'll build the perfect dinner date for Isabella and Phineas. Their favorite food, music.
Adyson: And when we get them to come back here and see it and each other, they're bound to fall madly in love like they were always meant to be!
Ferb: You know, you can't force these things.
Adyson: Oh, come on, we're girls! It's what we do!
Gretchen: When they first walk in, we'll play the songs I put on this playlist. They're all about love, and it will trigger them to start thinking about love. Then we have these streamers and balloons in both of their favorite colors, which will stimulate the romantic centers of their brains making them think about love.
Katie: What if it doesn't?
Buford: Well, then, we have this sign. (He holds up a sign saying: "Think about love.")
(At Sterling Auto Sales, Doofenshmirtz is trying out some sports cars.)
Doofenshmirtz: Sure you don't have anything else that's more ridiculous or irresponsible?
Salesman: Nope. This is as dumb as they come.
Doofenshmirtz: All right! (he speeds off) Woohoo! Yeehaw! (Perry gets a worried look, as the car crashes and Doof returns with only the steering wheel.) So, what else ya got?
Salesman: We've got another one just like it, but in yellow.
Doofenshmirtz: (He gasps) Ya hear that?! It'll be like driving a really fast Ducky Momo!
(In the kitchen Ginger and Adyson are cooking.)
Buford: Oh, yeah, it's the perfect romantic setting out there! It'll be like love kicked 'em both in the face!
Baljeet: Buford, the table looks great, but there is one thing that would make it perfect!
(He produces Buford's cupid costume from behind his back.)
Buford: No way! I'm not puttin' that stupid cupid costume on again!
Baljeet: But it worked so well for me and Mishti!
Ginger: (jealously) Hoo, Mishti, Mishti, Mishti!
Adyson: Let it go, Ging. 
(Doofenshmirtz is riding his yellow sportscar downtown.)
Doofenshmirtz: I think the turbo kicks in when it revs abo— (Perry gets another worried look on his face) Whoa! (The car speeds through an intersection and crashes into a dumpster.) Oh, oh! Oh, it's okay, we're fine! But we do seem to have picked up a passenger! I'll shake it loose up here at the turn. (Doofenshmirtz and Perry turn, while the dumpster continues on.)
(At Nosh Olé the garbage can rolls past the building as Isabella and her mother say their goodbyes.)
Vivian: Now drive safely, sweetheart. And call me when you get to school.
Isabella: Okay, Mom.
Vivian: I'm very proud of you! I will miss you so much!
Isabella: I'll miss you, too, Mom!
Vivian: Oh, I almost forgot! Your last paycheck!
(Isabella squeals)
Isabella: I love you! (chuckles) I'll call! (She gets her wallet out and something drops out of it.) Whoops. (She picks it up to reveal a picture of Phineas.)
(Song: "What Might Have Been")
Isabella: ♪ I wanted you to see me, ♪
♪ But for so long, you were blind. ♪
♪ Now it's time to face tomorrow, ♪
♪ And leave all that stuff behind ♪
♪ Of what would our lives have been like ♪
♪ If you'd just given me a sign. ♪
♪ 'Cause I like you more than every other ♪
♪ Thing I like combined. ♪
♪ I spent so many summers ♪
♪ Hoping something would begin. ♪
♪ I thought that I was over you, ♪
♪ But here I am again. ♪
♪ What might have been. ♪
(Phineas walks into the café.)
Vivian: Phineas, honey, how are you?
Phineas: Hi, Mrs. Garcia-Shapiro. Uh, is Isabella here?
Vivian: Oh, no, sweetie, she's gone.
Phineas: Gone, like driving-car-school-gone?
Vivian: Yes, you just missed her. It's too bad you didn't get to see her off. You know, since you were kids, she's had a huge crush on you.
Phineas: (he sighs) I wish I had known. (he leaves)
Phineas: ♪ I can't believe that all this time, ♪
♪ You never said a word ♪.
♪ Although it's possible you did ♪
♪ And I just never heard. ♪
♪ I never even noticed. ♪
♪ I guess I wasn't that alert. ♪
♪ But I must say that, in retrospect, ♪
♪ You were being quite overt. ♪
♪ And now our endless summer ♪
♪ Is finally coming to an end. ♪
♪ I tried to make the most of every day, ♪
♪ But now the years just seem misspent. ♪
♪ What might have been. ♪ 
Isabella: ♪ I could've been your girlfriend. ♪
Phineas: ♪ I could've been your fella. ♪
♪ We might've been an item. ♪
Isabella: ♪ They would've called us "Phinabella." ♪
Phineas: ♪ I would've held the door for you. ♪
♪ I would've shared my umbrella. ♪
Isabella: ♪ You could've held my hair back, ♪
♪ When I was sick with salmonella. ♪
(Other aged Isabllas and Buford as Cupid: ♪ Sick with salmonella. ♪)
Isabella and Phineas: ♪ We could've been together. ♪
♪ All you had to say was when. ♪
♪ And though I wanted so much more, ♪
♪ I guess you'll always be my friend. ♪
♪ What might have been. ♪
♪ What might have been. ♪
Isabella: (sighs) What might have been...
(Back in the backyard.)
Ginger: It's good, but...
Baljeet: It's still missing something.
(Ferb puts a vase on the table, and everyone compliments about how nice it looks.)
Adyson: Alright, let's get 'em over here now. (she takes out her cell phone) Oh, wait, I don't have any charge.
Gretchen: Oh, this is her old number.
Ginger: Wait, where's my phone?
(The dumpster from earlier goes through the gate and takes all the romantic dinner setup with it.)
Baljeet: My phone's out in the car.
Buford: I just got the 21G and the software won't be ready for two months.
Baljeet: (he looks behind him) Um, guys?
(All the girls look at the empty backyard.)
Katie: Wow! Now it's exactly like it was when we were kids!
(In an airplane, where Doof and Perry are about to skydive.)
Doofenshmirtz: You know what would be really impulsive? If you and me went out and did a little evil, just the two of us. (Perry slaps him in the face.) Yeah. Yeah, you're right. Maybe I should just go hit on the cute jump instructor instead. (to the jump instructor) Hi there. Y-Y'know, one of the best things about being a successful scientist is that I get to meet lots of attractive women, such as yourself.
Jump Instructor: You want to know the best part about being a jump instructor?
Doofenshmirtz: What?
(The jump instructor pushes him out of the plane. Perry tips his hat to her and follows him.)
Doofenshmirtz: Aaaaaaaahhh!!! Hey, Perry the Platypus! (Perry opens Doof's parachute for him and then opens his own parachute.) Okay, Perry the Platypus, that is it! (he takes off his gold chain) This mid-life crisis isn't nearly as much fun as I thought it was going to be. From now on, I'm sticking with my predictable boring old life (Doofenshmirtz drops the chain) with my predictable boring old friends. Uh, uh, that reminds me, did you reserve the lanes for Thursday night? (Perry nods)
(The falling chain ends up around Lawrence's neck, and he gets electrocuted. Inside Linda is at the kitchen reading a tablet. Lawrence approaches her with a rather exaggerated smile on his face.)
Lawrence: Linda! I don't know what's come over me, but I'm starting to get the most wild and uninhibited ideas! You know how every day for the last twenty years I've relaxed with a nice cup of Earl Grey? Well, not today, Linda! Today, I'm putting out all the stops! Darjeeling!
Linda: You... are a madman.
(Phineas walks by the Garcia-Shapiro residence. He stops and stands there for a while. A Hightail Delivery truck drives past and Phineas sees Isabella sitting on the stoop of his house. He walks over to her.)
Phineas: (to Isabella) Whatcha doin'? Heh heh.
(Isabella looks up and smiles.)
Phineas: Is this step taken? (He sits down next to her)
Isabella: I actually came by to...say goodbye to you.
Phineas: Off to school, huh?
Isabella: Yeah. I'm going two weeks early because I'm an R.A., and in soccer, debate camp, student government...
Phineas: Yeah. I haven't seen you all summer.
Isabella: I've been busy.
(beat)
Phineas: You know, Baljeet said something funny. He said you had a crush on me back in grade school.
Isabella: Oh. Yeah. I had a big crush on you.
Phineas: Wow...I had no idea.
Isabella: Really? I thought I was being so obvious!
Phineas: Absolutely clueless. Sorry.
Isabella: I sort of gave up when we got to high school.
Phineas: Yeah... I think that's when I started to have a thing for you.
(Isabella looks up in sudden realization.)
(a beat) 
Isabella: Well, that's unfortunate timing.
Phineas: Yep. You're off to college.
Isabella: Tri-State State. Have you decided where you're going yet?
Phineas: (gets out his letters) You know what? I just did. (He gives her one of the envelopes.)
Isabella: Oh. Huh.
Phineas: Hey, what's wro- Oh, shoot! (takes the letter from her) I'm sorry. Wrong letter. (He gives her the correct one.)
(Song: "Danville for Niceness" (instrumental))
Isabella: Well, I guess I'll see you in two weeks.
Phineas: Yes. Yes you will.
(Applause is heard coming from Baljeet and the girls.)
Adyson: It's about time!
Baljeet: (laughs) We have been trying to get you two together all day!
Phineas: You guys are the best!
Buford: (dressed as cupid again) So what did I miss?
Baljeet: It was as if love had kicked them both in the face!
Buford: Yeah? Called it!
Isabella: I'm going to miss you guys!
(Isabella and Phineas hold each other's hands and embrace. Their smiles slowly fade, however, but then return as they both blush. Isabella walks up to her car and open's the driver's door.)
Isabella: See ya.
Phineas: In two weeks.
Isabella: Eh, I've waited this long.
(Isabella gets in her car and drives away.)
Ferb: So, Tri-State State, huh? Good choice.
(A car is heard honking. Wide shot to reveal Vanessa driving the yellow sports car Doof bought from earlier.)
Vanessa: Hey, Ferbs, you ready? (Ferb gets in the passenger seat and hugs and kisses Vanessa.) Hi, Phineas!
Phineas: Hi, Nessa! Where're you guys goin'?
Vanessa: Oh, Ferb's takin' me out for Ukrainian food.
Ferb: Can we drop you anywhere?
Phineas: Hmm... as a matter of fact...
(Vanessa pulls her car up next to Isabella's, who is stopped at a stoplight. Phineas gets out of the backseat and the music begins to swell dramatically.)
Isabella: Phineas? (She gets out of the car) What are you doing?
Phineas: This. (He kisses her, and she kisses back)
Vanessa: I never knew she had a thing for him.
Ferb: Seriously?
Vanessa: (chuckles) Naw, I'm just messin' with you! Everyone knew! (She drives away with Ferb, leaving Phineas and Isabella alone.)
Isabella: Well, that was worth the wait.
Phineas: Yes. Yes it was. (They kiss again.)
(Swampy takes off his glasses and begins to sob uncontrollably.)
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: (sobbing) I can't believe it! It seems like only yesterday we were drawing our first doodles of these kids on the place mats of that...
Dan Povenmire: (consoling Swampy) Yeah, I, I know, it's a... It's a sweet episode.
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: Now they're, they're growing up... and going to college...
Dan Povenmire: But it's... It is really... It's just a cartoon.
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: Why?! 
Dan Povenmire: Um... Y'know, I gotta thing. I'm gonna... I'm just gonna... (He gets up out his chair and leaves Swampy alone.)
Jeff "Swampy" Marsh: They're growing up!

End credits
(During this, Swampy is still heard sobbing uncontrollably over the song.)
Isabella: ♪ I could've been your girlfriend. ♪
Phineas: ♪ I could've been your fella. ♪
♪ We might've been an item. ♪
Isabella: ♪ They would've called us "Phinabella." ♪
Phineas: ♪ I would've held the door for you. ♪
♪ I would've shared my umbrella. ♪
Isabella: ♪ You could've held my hair back, ♪
♪ When I was sick with salmonella. ♪
(Other aged Isabellas and Buford as Cupid: ♪ Sick with salmonella. ♪)
Dan Povenmire: (offscreen) Oh, get a grip, Swampy!



Contents[show]
Act I
(The scene opens to the Flynn-Fletcher family's backyard fence gate. Phineas and Ferb fly out riding hoverboards.)
(Song: "Serious Fun")
Chorus: ♪ Doo-doo-doo-doo ♪
♪ Doo-doo, doo-doo-doo... ♪
Phineas: ♪ Get out your tool case, ♪
♪ Put on your game face. ♪
♪ Get out your brushes, gonna paint this town. ♪
Phineas and Chorus: ♪ Let's just get rockin', no time for talkin', ♪
♪ Just fourteen hours 'till the sun goes down. ♪
Phineas: ♪ We've got one last day of summer, ♪
♪ One more day before school has begun, ♪
Phineas and Chorus: ♪ One last day in the sun, ♪
♪ Let's have some serious fun! ♪
Chorus: ♪ Doo-doo-doo-doo ♪
♪ Doo-doo, doo-doo-doo... ♪
Phineas and Chorus: ♪ Every day of summer, ♪
♪ We've given a hundred percent. ♪
♪ But today, we'll give a hundred and one. ♪
Baljeet: ♪ But that is not mathematically possible... ♪
Phineas: You know what we mean!
Baljeet: Yes, I understand: hyperbole.
Chorus: ♪ Doo-doo, doo-doo ♪
♪ Doo-doo... ♪
Phineas: ♪ We set a precedent ♪
♪ For entertainment, ♪
♪ We're doin' somethin' and it's gonna be big. ♪
Phineas and Chorus: ♪ Put on your glad rags and pack a lunch bag. ♪
♪ No, somethin' smaller, not that sucklin' pig. ♪
Phineas: ♪ We've got one last day of summer, ♪
♪ One more day before school has begun, ♪
♪ We've got one last day in the sun, ♪
♪ Let's have some serious fun! ♪
Chorus: ♪ (Let's have some serious fun...) ♪
Phineas: ♪ Let's have some serious fun! ♪
Chorus: ♪ (Let's have some serious fun...) ♪
Phineas: ♪ Let's have some serious fun! ♪
Chorus: ♪ (Let's have some serious fun...) ♪
♪ (Ooohh, yeeaaahh... !) ♪
(Cut to Candace in her bed. Her alarm goes of going back and forth between saying, "BUSTIN' TIME!" and "6:00".)
Candace's alarm: (Phineas' voice, while beeping) I know what we're gonna do today! I know what we're gonna do today! I know what we're—
(Candace turns off the alarm.)
Phineas: (offscreen) I know what we're gonna do today!
Candace: (growls, gets out of bed, and shouts out the window) And I know what I'm gonna do today! Bust you guys once and for all! Do your worst or your best. Just make it big and bustable, so I can show Mom!
Phineas: Wow! That was awfully supportive. And you said Candace wasn't a morning person. (to Ferb)
Candace: (walking towards her bedroom door) This is it, Candace – the last day of summer vacation! Your last chance to bust the (steps on a rollerskate) boooo- (steps on a skateboard and rolls down the stairs) -ooooooo – ugh! (falls off the skateboard and lands in a wagon, starts rolling around the house) Uh! Why do we have this many (pauses as she rolls behind a wall) wheeled objects lying around the house?
Linda: (reading the newspaper at the kitchen table) Oooh! Looks like the zoo's got a new tiger habitat. (Lawrence playfully roars at Linda and Candace rolls into the kitchen.) Good morning, Candace.
Candace: (unenthusiastically) Uh-huh. (pauses) And so begins the last day of summer. (wagon is stopped by Perry's dish)
Linda: (getting up with her purse) Which means back to school errands for me and making the most of the day for you. (looking at her watch) Ooh! I better get a move on. Those errands aren't gonna run themselves. (chuckles) They never do! (unenthusiastically) They never do. (leaves)
(Cut to Phineas and the gang in the backyard)
Phineas: Well, today's a big day, so it's a good thing we're getting an early start!
Isabella: I don't wanna waste one minute of our last day of summer!
Baljeet: Yipeeeeee! Last day of summer means first day of schooool! Ha-ha ha! (realizes the disproving looks on everyone else) I mean boooooo...
Isabella: Seems like only yesterday I walked through that side gate and asked "Whatcha doin?" when you were building that rollercoaster for the first time.
Phineas: Since it's our last day of summer, we're thinking a grand finale is in order. Show 'em the blueprints, Ferb.
(Ferb pushes the button on a remote and a giant blueprint comes up out of the ground.)
Baljeet and Isabella: Oooooh!
Buford: Eh, could use a little somethin' more. (more blueprint rolls out above the first one) Dere it is, but where's Perry?
(Cut to the side of the house. Perry walks around the corner, looks back, then gets up on his hind legs. He then puts on his fedora, takes out a remote, pushes the button, and steps into a secret door in the side of the house. An elevator takes him down to his lair, where, on the screen, Major Monogram waits for him. Perry drops into his seat.)
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah ♪
♪ Doo bee doo bee doo bah ♪
Major Monogram: Oh, good, Agent P, you're here! You're probably wondering about all these pulley things here. (eyes directing to tassel-like pulleys on his left and right) It's just that, with Carl heading to school soon, I'm (pauses) gonna have to learn to run this place all by myself. (grips the pulleys) Anyway, (pulls his left one to make a crudely drawn picture of fall leaves roll down in front of him on the screen) with the seasons about to change, I suspect Doofenshmirtz (a crudely drawn picture of Doofenshmirtz rolls down) will be trying to close out the summer (a crudely drawn picture of a "bang" rolls down) with a bang. (all the pictures, with his right pulley, fall to the floor) Great googly moogly! Carl! (his left pulley, still being gripped by Monogram, comes detached and dangles from his left hand.) Oh, that's right: (sadly realizing Carl isn't there) school. (Agent P takes off in his rocket chair.) Keep it together, Francis.

Act II
(The scene opens to a view of Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated! ♪
(Doofenshmirtz's alarm goes of and he sits up. In the process, he hits his head on a light hanging over his bed and falls back onto his pillow. At the same time, the alarm stops)
Doofenshmirtz: Ow! Okay, I've had enough of you! (to the light)
(He then shoots it with an handheld device that surrounds it with green energy and makes it vanish.)
Norm: (walking towards Doofenshmirtz's bed with a slice of chocolate cake) Wakey wakey, chocolate cakey! (takes a fork of it and points it at Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: (annoyed) How many times do I have to tell you that chocolate cake isn't for break— (Norm stuffs the bite in his mouth, Doofenshmirtz chews and swallows) I stand corrected. All right, up an' at 'em.
Norm: Sir, since when do you sleep in your lab coat?
(Doofenshmirtz looks at himself then looks at Norm angrily)
Doofenshmirtz: Since none o' your business!
(He runs out of his bedroom and Vanessa approaches him.)
Vanessa: Hey, (Doofenshmirtz stops and turns around) Dad, you have a minute?
Doofenshmirtz: Can it wait, sweetie? I've got a lot of stuff on my evil to-do list to do today. To do today. To-do to-day,
Vanessa: Dad.
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ to-do to-day, to-do to-day. ♪
Vanessa: Dad!
Doofenshmirtz: It's like a little song! (starts doing a little dance) ♪ To-do, ♪
Vanessa: (angrily) Dad!!
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ to-do, to-do to-day, to-do, ♪
Vanessa: (rolling her eyes) Ugh! (walks away)
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ to-do todaaay! ♪ All the ladies in the house say— (points where Vanessa was) Wait! Where'd she go?
(Cut to Phineas and the gang in their backyard)
Phineas: (referencing something that's offscreen) Great job, gang! Whadaya think?
(Their giant invention is revealed and a fanfare sounds)
Isabella: Sooo, what is it?
Phineas: It's everything!
Buford: Who says you can't have it all?
Baljeet: Yippee! For this and not for school. (walks away from the others and whispers) I love you school! (walks back)
Buford: (looks at Baljeet disapprovingly) Do other nerds erect statues to you?
Baljeet: (looks at Buford embarrassingly) Maybe.
Isabella: (referencing the invention) Looks pretty mega to me!
Buford: (walking over to Phineas and Ferb) Yeah, it's pretty mega, but is it really grand finale material worthy (hugs Phineas and Ferb) of these two guys? (pausing and realizing what he did) I just made it weird, didn't I?
Phineas: No, not at all!
Ferb: Hugs are a healthy expression of affection between friends.
Buford: (letting go of them and looking at Ferb) Okay, now you just made it weird.
Phineas: Anyway, we've gotta make sure we've outdone ourselves on this one.
Buford: And there's only one way to do it.
Phineas: You're right, Buford. Let's ride it! (everyone but Buford starts running towards the invention)
Buford: Actually I was gonna say focus group testing, (starts running to catch up to the others) but "ride it" works too.
(With everyone wearing their helmets, Ferb pulls a lever and they all get sucked up to the starting point on the invention via individual colored tubes.)
(Song: "There's No One I'd Rather Go Nowhere With")
♪ Pa pa pa pa... ♪♪ Pa pa pa pa... ♪♪ You know we're going nowhere fast, ♪♪ And we've got no destination ♪♪ Nothin' scheduledWe got no chores to do ♪♪ The sun is up, the wind is warm, ♪♪ And we're clear of all obligation ♪♪ We're taking the scenic route, Just enjoy the view. ♪
♪ Ooo oo oooh ♪♪ Pa pa pa pa ♪♪ There's no one that I'd rather go nowhere with ♪♪ Than yooou! ♪♪ Pa pa pa pa ♪♪ There's no one that I'd rather go nowhere with ♪♪ Than yooou! ♪
♪ We don't need a compass ♪♪ We don't need a guiding star ♪♪ We don't need a GPS to tell us where we are ♪♪ 'Cause we know where we are ♪
♪ Ooo oo ooh ♪♪ Pa pa pa pa ♪♪ There's no one that I'd rather go nowhere with ♪♪ Than yooou! ♪♪ Pa pa pa pa ♪♪ There's no one that I'd rather go nowhere with ♪♪ Than yooou! ♪
Candace: (walking outside) Aha! The boys did it again! Big, dangerous, bustable: prime for megabust! (lifting cell phone and dialing a number) I'm calling Mom right now!
Phineas: Say "Hi" for us!
(Cut to Linda loading groceries into her station wagon at the Super Food Stuff Mart while talking on her cell phone.)
Linda: I know, I know. I'm on my way.
Candace: (on the cell phone) I'll meet you up front! (hangs up, then calls again) Hehehehehehehe.
(Cut to the kids in the backyard coming to the ground with parachutes)
Phineas: So, whadya say, guys? Best ride ever?
Baljeet: (looking at papers in his hands) Well, empirically speaking, the test results show almost unanimous approval ratings!
Buford: (coming down beside Baljeet) I have notes.
Baljeet: Like I said: almost.
Phineas: (smiling) Well, you heard him, Ferb. Back to the drawing board!
(Their invention compresses and folds up into a drawing board.)
Baljeet: (staring at their invention, now a drawing board) Wow, that was impressive, and quite literal.
(Candace quickly opens the fence gate with her Mom next to her.)
Candace: Tada!
Phineas: (waving to them while standing next to Ferb, who's drawing on the drawing board) Hi, Mom! Hi, Candace!
Candace: But, but but!
Linda: (taking Candace to the side) Look Candace, most days I would humor you, but not today. I'm way too busy. Don't you have stuff of your own to do before school starts?
Candace: Yeah, bust the boys!
Linda: Candace?
Candace: De-de ge-de de-de-de-de daaahhhh... (sulkily) I guess I can return Vanessa's DVDs.
Linda: (walking away) There ya go, Hon. They're not gonna return themselves.
Candace: They never do.
(Cut to a view of Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, where Perry arrives in his rocket chair, but is then trapped in midair inside the bass drum from Norm's drum set)
Doofenshmirtz: (approaching the drum set while looking at Perry) Ah, Perry the Platypus: snared in my trap. (Norm plays a rim shot on the drum set) Ha! Drum pun! (starts walking away from the drum set onto the balcony) I realized that all this time I was planning to become ruler of the Tri-State Area, never took into account the fact there is no actual position. I should have spent my time creating one. And, if I create it, no one will know about it. (hops up to sit on the rim of the balcony) I will run unoppo (falls off the balcony) whoooa! (catches himself with his hands and lifts his face back over the side) That was close. Then I'll easily win, and (lifts up his left hand into a fist) take over the Tri-State Area. With that in mind, (lets go with both hands) be- (holds them up in the air and starts falling) hooooooooo... (Perry is shocked, teeth clenched, eyes wide open. Then the elevator dings and Doofenshmirtz comes back in and approaches his Inator with his arms up again.) Behold: The Tri-Governor-inator! (a drum roll sounds, Perry rolls over Doofenshmirtz with the bass drum, and a cymbal crash sounds) Wow, an actual drum roll. (Perry hits the banister, one drum head and hoop falls off, and Perry leaps out.) Ay-ah! (the doorbell sounds as Perry leaps on Doofenshmirtz and starts fighting him)
Vanessa: (walking past them) Please, so over it. (she opens the door to let Candace in, smiling)
Candace: (waving while holding DVDs) Hey, Vanessa! Just came by here to return (realizing it's Candace, Perry lets Doofenshmirtz out of a headlock and hides) your DVDs. Sorry I had them so long, can't say I understand French cinema. I mean, why does that mime keep letting go of balloons?
Vanessa: I think it's (Perry finds a hiding spot) symbolic.
Candace: (handing Vanessa the DVDs) Well, anyway, how's it goin'?
Vanessa: (starts feeling uninterested and stops smiling) I've been better.
Candace: (still smiling and gesturing) Me too! You wouldn't believe (stops smiling, but still has her eyes wide open) the day I'm having so far! I mean really. Like I could go on. Like I could tell you all about it. I mean there's a lot that happened and there's—
Vanessa: Yooou wanna (starts smiling again) come in?
Candace: (starts smiling again and comes in while Vanessa closes the door behind her) Oh wow, ya, that'd be great!
Vanessa: I could use some downloading too. I'll go make us some tea. (starts walking away) B-R-B.
Candace: Awesome! (starts walking towards Doofenshmirtz, who is now standing and is brushing himself off) Oh, hi, Vanessa's dad! How's it goin'?
Doofenshmirtz: (turning around to talk to her) Have you seen my nemesis? He was just here a second ago. He's about (holds his hand at an approximate height of Perry) yay high and—ha. You know what? No matter. When the guy who's punching you suddenly loses interest mid-punch, it's time to take serious stock of your life. (turns around) H-ugh.
Candace: I can totally relate! (Doofenshmirtz starts walking away) Like from the beginning of today it was pretty bad. Like I'm all off.
Doofenshmirtz: (trying to find Perry) Uh-huh.
Candace: And you know every day this summer I've been trying to bust my brothers, and it's just not happening.
Doofenshmirtz: Uh-huh.
Candace: Do you know how frustrating it is to have a single unrealized focus in your life?
Doofenshmirtz: Well that's just crazy. Gotta be some kind of teenage thing. (starts walking back over to her after giving up on finding Perry)
Candace: Same old, same ol' yadda yadda ya bledolbledolbledolbledolbledolbledol. That's been my day so far. (starts lowering herself onto an Inator)
Doofenshmirtz: (runs to her and frantically waving Candace off the machine) Don't sit on that, a-and stop fussing with all of my Inators!
Candace: Inators? Why? What does this (points at the machine she almost sat on) one do?
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, that is my Do-Over-Inator.
Candace: What's a Do-Over-Inator?
Doofenshmirtz: Really? It says "do over" right in the name. I-it does the day over again, but I haven't worked out all the kinks yet. Matter of fact, I gotta work out the kinks in a lot o' these.
Candace: (looking at the machine) A Do-Over-inator? (presses the purple button second farthest to the left, causing the Inator to make loud mechanical noises and surround her and Doofenshmirtz with a large, glowing blue-purple bubble, then emit a blue flash)
(After we see a forever looping spiral clock, cut to Candace in her bed. Her alarm goes off going back and forth between saying, "BUSTIN' TIME!" and "6:00".)
Candace's alarm: (Phineas' voice, while beeping) I know what we're gonna do today! I know what we're—
(Candace turns off the alarm.)
Phineas: (offscreen) I know what we're gonna do today!
Candace: (growls, gets out of bed, and shouts out the window) And I know what I'm gonna do today! Bust you guys once and for all! Do your worst or your— you know, just make it (starts feeling the familiarity of the conversation) big and... bustable, so I can show... Mom.
Phineas: (outside offscreen) Wow! That was awfully supportive.
Candace: (walks away from the window) Talk about déjà v— (runs back to the window to talk to Phineas) You there, boy! What day is it?
Phineas: Why, the last day of summer, of course!
Candace: (enthusiastically) Aaah! Yes! Vanessa's dad's machine! It worked! Which means that yesterday is today! Another chance(steps on a rollerskate) to bust the boooo- (steps on a skateboard and rolls down the stairs) -ooys! I didn't think there would be this part!– ugh! (falls off the skateboard and loses the skate, lands in a wagon, and starts rolling around the house) Har... (pauses as she rolls behind a wall) dee har har.
Linda: (reading the newspaper at the kitchen table) Oooh! Looks like the zoo's got a new tiger habitat. (Lawrence playfully roars at Linda and Candace rolls into the kitchen.) Good morning, Candace.
Candace: (smiling) Mm-hmm! (pauses) And so begins the last day of summer! (wagon is stopped by Perry's dish and she pauses, then points at Perry) Again!
Linda and Candace: (Linda getting up with her purse) Which means back to school errands for me and making the most of the day for you.
Linda: (angrily) Hey!
Candace: (happily getting up out of the wagon and approaching Linda) Hey! This is amazing! (approaching and holding onto a chair) Today is exactly the same as yesterday! It's repeating! (leans her elbows on the chair back)
Lawrence: Very existential, darling. You're getting philosophical as you get older.
Candace: (walking away and pointing at Lawrence) And BUSTosophical!
Linda: (looking at Candace with lowered eyelids and speaking in a sing-song voice) That's not even a wo-ord!
Candace: (coming back) It is now! (walks around Linda and speaks in a sing-song voice) I made it u-up!
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz in his bed, where his alarm goes of and he sits up. In the process, he hits his head on a light hanging over his bed and falls back onto his pillow. At the same time, the alarm stops)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah! Taah... Didn't I disintegrate you? (to the light)
(He then shoots it with an handheld device that surrounds it with green energy and makes it vanish.)
Norm: (walking towards Doofenshmirtz's bed with a slice of chocolate cake) Wakey wakey, chocolate cakey! (takes a fork of it and points it at Doofenshmirtz)
Doofenshmirtz: (annoyed) Really? Didn't I tell you cake isn't for breakfast (knocks the cake out of Norm's hands and up and over the bed) yesterday? (realizes something) Hmm. (gets out of bed and runs out of his bedroom and Vanessa approaches him)
Vanessa: Hey Dad? (Doofenshmirtz turns around to see her)
Doofenshmirtz: (thinking) Hmm, repeating.
Vanessa: You have a minute?
Doofenshmirtz: M-hmm.
Vanessa: We really
Doofenshmirtz: M-hmm.
Vanessa: need to
Doofenshmirtz: M-hmm. (Vanessa growls and starts frowning) Yeah!
Vanessa: Dad!
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah! Everything is repeating! Th-that bang on my head, that-that thing with Norm and the stupid cake, a-and you! (starts walking to his Do-Over-Inator) I-it works! My Do-Over-Inator must work! Ah-your little friend must have (Vanessa catches up to him) activated it yesterday! A-and by "yesterday" I mean "today". Later today, your-uh little friend will activa– and the days will probably keep repeating until I shut it off!
Vanessa: (angrily) This is what I'm talking about. You're not even listening! (starts walking towards the door, without Doofenshmirtz noticing) I'm moving out, Dad. I'm going to live at Mom's... (walks out the door) full time. (slams the door)
Norm: (walking up to the door, still smiling) Door slams mean sadness.
Doofenshmirtz: (running over to Norm) Wait! What did she say?
(Norm presses his top button)
Norm's speaker: (Vanessa's voice) I'm going to live at Mom's... full time. (door slamming noise)
Doofenshmirtz: Aaah! I can't believe it! (inhales sharply) You surreptitiously record us? And even more importantly, I'm losing my little girl!

Act III
(Open to a view of Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, then back to Doofenshmirtz and Norm)
Doofenshmirtz: Why would Vanessa want to move out?
Norm: Let's see if we can solve that little mystery! (presses his top button)
Norm's speaker: (Doofenshmirtz's voice) Hey, Vanessa, hand me that cadaver.
Norm: or (presses his button again)
Norm's speaker: (Doofenshmirtz's voice) Honeybun, if you go into the living room and see a pile of skin flakes, just ignore it.
Doofenshmirtz: Okay.
Norm: or (presses his button again)
Norm's speaker: (Doofenshmirtz's voice) I know you said the time machine in the bathroom was a bad idea, but if you need to go, you should do it last week.
Doofenshmirtz: Okay! Okay! I get it. I get it. My daughter's moving out because she thinks I'm a loser.
Norm: I like pancakes!
Doofenshmirtz: Buuuut, ya know who isn't a loser? The Tri-Governor! I just need to win that office and Vanessa will want to (starts walking towards his Do-Over-Inator) stay with me! And this (pets the Inator) little baby's gonna help me get it right.
(Norm starts playing the guitar)
(Song: "When Tomorrow is This Morning Again")
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ They say you only go around once, ♪
♪ They say that opportunity, it never knocks twice! ♪
♪ But if there's one thing I can say about the people who say that: ♪
♪ They don't have this cool devi- ♪
Chorus Part 1: ♪ They don't have this cool devi- ♪
Chorus Part 2: ♪ They don't have this cool devi- ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ iiice! ♪
Chorus: ♪ iiice! ♪
Candace: ♪ I've never even heard of déjà vu this bad, ♪
♪ but everything today is so familiar ♪
♪ Like the best recurring dream I ever had, ♪
♪ Like when ya know what's gonna happen, but it's still gonna thrill ya! ♪
♪ If it keeps repeating, I should do something about it, ♪
♪ I don't know the repercussions if I just let it run. ♪
♪ If you told me there'd be consequences, I wouldn't doubt it, ♪
♪ But it's tempting just to let it go and use it for fuuuu- ♪
Chorus Part 1: ♪ Use it for fu- ♪
Chorus Part 2: ♪ Use it for fu- ♪
Candace and Chorus: ♪ uuuuuun! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I could get him right, ♪
♪ Because today I have multiple chances. ♪
Candace: ♪ With just a little foresight, ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ My means will justify my ends. ♪
Candace: ♪ My worries will be over soon! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I'll rework my fate, improve my circumstances! ♪
Candace: ♪ If I get it wrong ♪
Doofenshmirtz and Candace: ♪ This afternoon, ♪
Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I'll get it right today when tomorrow is this ♪
Doofenshmirtz and Candace: ♪ Morning again! ♪
♪ If I get it wrong this afternoon, ♪
♪ I'll get it right today when tomorrow is this morning again! ♪
♪ If I get it wrong this afternoon, ♪
♪ I'll get it right today when tomorrow is this morning agaaaaaaaaaain! ♪
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb with their friends in their backyard, right after the second part of the blueprint rolled down)
Buford: There it is, but where's Perry?
(Everyone turns their head to their right to see Candace walking towards them.)
Candace: Good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good. Perfect! You guys built your sky-high mega-ride thingy. I just wanted to double-check, and this time, I'm not gonna call Mom. I'm gonna (starts walking backwards away from them) go get her. Ciao!
Phineas: (holding his hand up) Bye, Candace! (turns back towards his friends) Sky-high, huh? I think you're right, Buford. We can make this better, and Candace has just given me a great idea how to do it!
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz standing next to Norm with his drum set.)
Doofenshmirtz: (looking at his watch) Perry the Platypus should be coming in about three, two, one. (Perry comes in on his rocket chair and lands in the bass drum, then the bass drum is put in the drum set) Ha-ha! And, (Perry rolls towards Doofenshmirtz  in the drum and he hops out of the way) drum roll! (Perry rolls past him) Missed me! (Perry hits the staircase, flips over, then pops out of one of the drum's head and hoops.) And, skull! (a giant skull falls over Perry and traps him, then Doofenshmirtz walks over to him) It worked! It worked, and finally I get some use out of these old Halloween decorations. I'm the master of ti- (Perry opens the skull's mouth and clamps it down on Doofenshmirtz's body) ow! Oh, this really bites. (Perry breaks out of the top of the skull) Oh no, wait! Not my Inator! (Perry pushes the "X DESTRUCT" button on the Tri-Governor-inator and it blows up) That's okay, Perry the Platypus. I'll be the master of time tomorrow.
(Cut to Candace opening her fence gate with Linda next to her.)
Candace: Tada! (realizing their backyard is empty) Huh? But-but, but?
Linda: (taking Candace off to the side) Look, Candace. Most days, I would humor you, but not today. I'm way too busy—
Candace: I know, you're way too busy getting us ready for school, so I'll just take care of the stuff I have to do before tomorrow.
Linda: (walking away) Couldn't have said it better myself.
Candace: Well, no one can say I didn't try, twice. (walks to the house)
(Phineas and Ferb's invention is revealed floating above the yard, and the kids parachute down)
Phineas: Ah, it's a shame Candace missed out on the fun. She did give us the cool idea to levitate it, after all.
(the swirly clock appears again, then we cut to Candace in her bed. Her alarm goes off going back and forth between saying, "BUSTIN' TIME!" and "6:00".)
Candace's alarm: (Phineas' voice, while beeping) I know what we're gonna do today! I know what we're—
(Candace turns off the alarm.)
Phineas: (offscreen) I know what we're gonna do today!
Candace: (quickly and happily sitting up) No way! (sticks her head out the window and yells to Phineas) You there, boy! What day is it?... again.
Phineas: Why, the last day of summer, of course!
Candace: (screams happily and ducks her head back into the house) Yes! The days are repeating! Which means, I still have a chance to— (notices her skates on the floor and starts talking to it) Oh, no. I'm not falling for that one again. (walks to the side) Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me, but fool me three times and (steps on a third skate) whooooa! Why do I even have (steps on the skateboard) three skates? (falls off the skateboard)
Lawrence: (reading a newspaper at the kitchen table) Oooh.
Candace: (rolling past the table in the wagon and speaking unenthusiastically) There's tigers at the zoo. Roar.
Linda: (reading a newspaper next to Lawrence) And so we begin another day.
Candace: (getting Linda out of her chair) Yes,-and-you've-got-errands-to-run-'cause-they're-not-gonna-run-themselves.-They-never-do.-They-never-do.(starts pushing Linda out of the house) Better-get-a-move-on-if-you're-gonna-be-back-in-an-hour-and-twenty-seven-minutes.-Bye!
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz in his bed with his alarm going off.)
Doofenshmirtz: (sitting up, stopping before he hits the lamp) Ah! (moves around the lamp and points at it) Ah! Ha-a! (gets out of bed) Ha-ha!
Norm: (standing at the foot of the bed) Wakey, wakey—
Doofenshmirtz: (passing him and leaving the bedroom) Stuff it, Norm!
(Norm stuffs the cake in his face, and it comes out of his ears in a manner similar to what would happen if you stuffed clay in a modern Mr. Potato Head, minus body parts actually falling off.)
Vanessa: (approaching Doofenshmirtz outside his room) Dad, (Doofenshmirtz turns around) do you have a minute? It's really—
Doofenshmirtz: (holding a clipboard with drawings of Perry the Platypus and traps and with an "I can handle anything" look on his face) Hush (holds his hand up and puts both hands on her shoulders) I know.
Vanessa: Dad, I—
Doofenshmirtz: (holding a finger over Vanessa's mouth) Sh, sh, sh. (lowers finger and smiles) I know exactly what you're going to say and I'm on it, but right now, I need to (looks at the clip board and points at it with a pencil) study Perry the Platypus's every move.
Vanessa: (angrily) Dad, this is the problem! (Doofenshmirtz writes on the clipboard) Because of your stupid work—
Doofenshmirtz: Hold that thought, sweetie. I've really gotta go and improve Perry the Platypus's trap. (starts walking away) B-R-B! (stretches back) That's uh, that's "be right back". It's hip today to talk in acronyms. (walks away again)
(Cut to a slightly later time. The giant skull lands on Perry, he breaks out, and a wood beam with a bowl on it swings around, catches Perry, and throws him into a metal cage.)
Doofenshmirtz: (rolling up to Perry while in a hamster ball) Ah-hu, hah! I can see by the confused and somewhat annoyed look on your face that your little mammal brain is working overtime trying to figure out how I anticipated your every move, not to mention the purpose of this... hamster ball. Well, it's simple! You see, this protects me from when you eventually escape from that! (notices Perry has escaped) Like, like that, but you can't punch, kick, or otherwise bruise me, because I'm safe inside of (Perry punches the ball and Doofenshmirtz starts rolling around the room) thii-oooo
Norm: (with a pan of muffins)It's muffin time, sir!
Doofenshmirtz: (rolling past him) Later! (A blue portal opens and the muffins get sucked into it) Oh, whooa... (bounces off the balcony) Maybe I'll get lucky and time will loop before (crashing noise) Oh! No sudden—
(Time loops, and then we cut to Candace in her bed. Her alarm goes off going back and forth between saying, "BUSTIN' TIME!" and "6:00".)
Candace's alarm: (Phineas' voice, while beeping) I know what we're gonna do toda—
(Candace turns off the alarm.)
Candace: (smirking) Alarm,
Phineas: (offscreen) I know what we're gonna do today!
Candace: kids in the backyard, (quickly sitting up) I'm back, baby! (slides down the banister) Yihoo! (lands on the floor and runs past the kitchen table) Tigers at the zoo! Roar-r-roar-roar-roar! Mom, gotta go: errands. (pulls Linda out of her chair) Mwa-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! (while pulling her out of the house)
Lawrence: (looking back at his newspaper) Well, she's having a good day.
(Another blue portal appears and sucks up Lawrence's spoon out of his cereal. Lawrence proceeds to lap at his cereal like a dog. We then cut to Candace walking outside right after the blueprints roll down)
Buford: There it is.
Candace: This is great. This time I'm gonna bust you outta this world!
Phineas: Hmm. Candace has just given me a great idea on how to make this thing even better!
(Song: "Quirky Worky Song")
(Flip to later that day, with the kids in space helmets and aluminum foil hose draped various places around the yard)
Candace: (walking towards them) Now it's all sci-fi?
Phineas: You inspired it, Candace. It's out of this world!
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, where Perry is thrown into a dinosaur-like, maraca holding robot, then breaks out through the belly, and it falls apart. He then throws the maraca from its left hand at Doofenshmirtz, and it hits him in the face.)
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb's backyard, where alien spaceships carry off their invention right before Candace pushes Linda through the gate in a shopping cart.)
(Time loops, and then we cut to Candace's alarm going off going back and forth between saying, "BUSTIN' TIME!" and "6:00".)
Candace's alarm: (Phineas' voice, while beeping) I kno—
(Candace turns off the alarm.)
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, where Perry narrowly ducks under being caught in a bear trap. It falls over, and Perry throws it over Doofenshmirtz's neck.)
(Cut to Candace carrying Linda through their fence gate on her shoulders.)
Candace: (noticing the kids in the backyard with no invention) But, but, but.
(Time loops, and we cut to Candace's alarm going off going back and forth between saying, "BUSTIN' TIME!" and "6:00".)
Candace's alarm: (Phineas' voice, while beeping) I know what we're gonna do today!
(Cut to Perry being thrown into a cage hanging on a chain. It swings back and hits Doofenshmirtz in the face, making him fall over.)
(Cut to Candace sliding through the backyard gate on her knees while holding Linda.)
Candace: (noticing the empty backyard) But, but, but.
(Time loops, and we cut to Candace's alarm going off going back and forth between saying, "BUSTIN' TIME!" and "6:00".)
Candace's alarm: (Phineas' voice, while beeping) I know what we're gonna do today!
(Cut to Perry landing with his legs being caught in springs. Doofenshmirtz points and laughs right before Perry jumps on his face with the springs attached to a floor tile.)
(Cut to Candace showing Linda through the fence gate while dressed as a clown. Only the kids are there.)
(Cut to Perry being thrown into a trap with the trap's arm. Doofenshmirtz leans on it, but Perry escapes by pushing the arm off, and uses it to whack Doofenshmirtz in the back of the head.)
(Cut to Candace rolling a sumo wrestler costume-wearing Linda through the gate to the backyard. Just the kids are there, so Candace angrily rolls Linda out.)
(Time loops, and we cut to Doofenshmirtz Evil Incorporated, where Doofenshmirtz has set up an extremely large scheme of traps for Perry the Platypus, and Norm is holding a box of to the side.)
(End of "Quirky Worky Song")
Doofenshmirtz: (pouring oil on the floor) Okay, twenty-third time's the charm.
I totally got it all covered now. (walks over to Norm) Hand me that box of angry weasels, would ya, Norm? (Norm hands it to him and Doofenshmirtz opens it, then the weasels attack him) Ow! Ow! Ow! O-ow! (closes the weasels back in their box, and reveals his face, covered with injuries) Yes, they'll do. It's the latest Perry the Platypus trap.
Norm: De-lightful!
Doofenshmirtz: (here Perry's bass drum roll) And here he is. Norm, hand out the victory muffins.
Norm: What is a muffin?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, come on. You know. Like:
(Song: "The Muffin Man")
♪ Oh, do you know the muffin man, ♪
♪ That lives on Drury Lane? ♪
Drury Lane. Why would anyone buy a house on Drury Lane? It just sounds so, it sounds dreary, even though it's not actually "Dreary", it's "Drury".
Norm: Though entertaining, your muffin song did not stir my memory banks, sir.
Doofenshmirtz: Hmm, that's peculiar. I suppose it could be some type of anomaly caused by messing with the space time continuum. Might even be dangerous. Oh well, I'll have to... ignore that in my payroll, because (shows Perry still fighting through the series of traps) now that I've gotten a full thirty steps ahead of Perry the Platypus, I'm free to take over the Tri-State Ar— Vanessa, where are you going? (walks over to Vanessa) Don't you wanna talk?
Vanessa: Actually, I really do, but you seem busy.
Doofenshmirtz: (putting an arm around her) Oh, Honey, that's (smiles and points at her) very perceptive of you! (a slapping noise is heard and Doofenshmirtz turns his head) Yes! (turns back toward Vanessa) So, let's just put a pin in this. I'm kind of racing against the clock here. I know it seems like I'm putting you second, but it's only so I can put you first eventually!
Vanessa: Whatever, Dad. (walks away)
Doofenshmirtz: Vaness— ugh. Well, you'll see. This is going to be my moment to take over the Tri-State Area and then that will prove to you I'm not as big a loser as you think I am. (walks towards his Tri-Governor-inator on the balcony) Okay, no pressure. Tri-State governor's mansion, here I come! (pulls a lever on the Inator that activates it and makes it shoot out a purple beam that creates a mansion on top of City Hall) Sa-weet! Now I've just gotta get someone to vote for me— anyone, actually, 'cause I'm running unopposed. (comes out of his building in cardboard that says "VOTE FOR DOOF", and a voting booth that says "DOOF", "VOTE HERE", "VOTE EARLY", and "VOTE OFTEN") Voting today!
Man: I didn't know there were elections today.
Doofenshmirtz: (pushing him in the booth) Oh, get in the booth and do your civic duty.
Candace: I am so gonna get it right today! (runs past the kitchen table) I can feel it in my— (notices Lawrence and Linda eating cereal by dumping it into their mouth or eating it with their hands and comes back to the table) Um, ever hear of a spoon?
Lawrence: Spoon? Mm, no, can't say I have.
Candace: Ha-ha, ha! Hey! I hear there's a new tiger habitat, dahling.
Lawrence: Tiger? (stifles a laugh) That's a funny sounding word.
Linda: (standing up) Oh, these teenagers and their slang. (walking towards the open garage door and Candace notices something about her) I'd better go run my errands. They're not gonna run themselves. (turns around and grabs her purse, revealing she's wearing cargo shorts)
Candace: Mom? What happened to your Capri pants?
Linda: Capri pants? Now I think you're just messing with us.
Candace: Ha... No spoons? No tigers? No Capris? Uh-oh, something's really going wrong!
(Cut to Doofenshmirtz opening a door in his apartment)
Doofenshmirtz: Vanessa? Vanessa! (runs to her) I need to talk to you about your, you know, wanting to move out.
Vanessa: Wait, you know about that? How—
Doofenshmirtz: (grasping her by the shoulders) Honeey, just watch! (turns on the television to DANVILLE 7, where Roger is speaking live from in front of City Hall)
Roger: (on the screen) Apparently, for the first time in Tri-State history, a Tri-Governor has been elected, and the voters have chosen, (looks down at his paper in shock) my brother, Heinz Doofenshmirtz?!
Doofenshmirtz: Yes! See, Vanessa? I'm not a loser anymore. Now you'll want to live with me at the Tri-Governor's mansion, right? Right?
Vanessa: Dad! It's not that—
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, wait, wait, ho-hold that thought, sweetie-peeps. A-as long as my Do-Over-Inator is on, this day could start all over again. I could lose it all. So, so, you know. (holds her hands) Go 'head and start packing your stuff. I'm just gonna run over and turn off my Inator. We're, we're movin' on up, Kiddo! (runs over to his Inator just as it is getting sucked into another blue portal as he grabs at it) Hey! Well, uh, I didn't see that coming, but it's gone, so I guess that's the end of the looping! And now, (flips to Doofenshmirtz on the balcony of the Tri-Governor's mansion with his left arm around an unimpressed and slightly annoyed Vanessa) everything's gonna be hunky-dory, 'cause I'm in charge, baby!
(Cut to Candace running up to Phineas and Ferb in their backyard)
Candace: Guys! Guys! I really need your help! There's this really weird thing that's happening! Days keep repeating because of a machine thingy that Vanessa's dad made, and there was this wagon, and now things are disappearing, like tigers, and spoons, and—
Phineas: What's a... "spoon"?
Ferb: What's a "tiger"?
Candace: See? That's my point! Stuff's disappearing! and once it goes, nobody remembers it— (Phineas and Ferb get sucked up into another portal) e-ever existed... (inhales sharply) Moooooo- (runs inside to Linda, who is vacuuming the living room) -om! It took them! (hangs on Linda) Like the spoons! (inhales) Mom, Phineas and Ferb are gone!
Linda: I'm sure it's going to be all right, dear, but, who are "Phineas" and "Ferb"?
(Dramatic sting.)

Act IV
(Open on the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
Candace: How can you not know who Phineas and Ferb are?!
Linda: Lemme guess. They're your new favorite boy band?
Candace: No, Mom. Y'see, later on today, which is kinda like last month to me, Vanessa's dad invents this thing which he says doesn't work but it actually does, because, well, here I am.  But it also doesn't work because they're not here, so even though every day repeats, not everyone or everything repeats, because you don't even know what Capri pants are!!
Linda: "Capri Pants"? Is that a boy band?
Candace: They're— (slaps herself) Gah!
(Cut to the Tri-Governor Mansion.)
Doofenshmirtz: Check out your First Daughter suite! Not too keen to move out now, are ya?
Vanessa: Yeah. Very, very nice, Dad. But, listen, I have something I—
Melanie: Pardon me, sir, I hate to interrupt, but your schedule is jam packed today. (She takes Doof's hand and leads him out.)
Doofenshmirtz: Sorry, sweetie, but apparently, there's a lot of stuff I have to attend to. Look on the bright side, you can brag about your dad to your friends until I get back.
(Cut to a rather colorless place, which will heretofore be referred to as Nullville. Phineas and Ferb are walking around.)
Phineas: This is so weird. It's Danville...but it's not. Oh my gosh, Ferb! Spoons! Now I totally remember how we forgot about them when they disappeared! Which means we must have disappeared.
(An anomaly opens up and oranges fall from the sky.)
Phineas: Orange you glad we have somethin' to eat? (no response) You're right. You're right. We gotta figure out a way outta here. (A tiger roars offscreen.) Hope whatever that is likes oranges.
Ferb: Or at least orange-related puns.
(Cut to Isabella's house. Candace runs up to it.)
Buford: (offscreen) But I'm tellin' ya, the sun's rays'll make ya crazy.
(Cut to Isabella's backyard where Baljeet is measuring something with a device and Isabella is arguing with Buford.)
Isabella: I'm not gonna buy your hat, Buford.
Candace: Great! You're all together! Look, I need you guys to help me find my brothers!
Buford: And you are?
Isabella: She's my neighbor from across the street. But I thought you were an only child.
Candace: No, no, I have two little brothers and all of you are best friends! But then Vanessa's dad built this machine, and now the days are repeating and things like spoons and little boys like my brothers are starting to disappear. And the worst thing is nobody remembers them!
Buford: You should stay out of the sun!
(Cut to:)
♪ Doofenshmirtz Tri-Governor's Mansion! ♪
(Cut to Doof's oval office.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, Doofy-boy, time to govern-inate! (Perry enters the room on his jetpack.) Right on time, Perry the Platypus! (reading a piece of paper) This concerns you. I have just made it illegal to thwart the Tri-Governor of the Tri-State Area, which, ipso facto, is me. (Gives Perry the paper.) Go ahead, read it. It's all perfectly legal. Looks like your thwarting days are over, Perry the Platypus. (sighs) Y'know, I-I-I really miss our good old thwarting days already. I-In fact, your presence here is making me far too sad and nostalgic. So maybe you better go. (Perry leaves dragging his jetpack across the rug.) Just leave the way you came in. I'll bill ya for the carpet.
Perry: (chatters sadly)
Doofenshmirtz: No, no, don't give me the puppy dog eyes. You're gonna make me cry. Sheesh. (Perry jumps out the window.)
Melanie: (on speaker) Pardon me, Mr. Tri-Governor, the Mayor's on the line.
Doofenshmirtz: Put 'im through. Helloooooooooo, Roger!
Roger: (on speaker) Heinz, did you steal my secretary?
Doofenshmirtz: Yes. Yes I did.
Roger: (on speaker) What makes you think you can do a thing like that?!
Doofenshmirtz: Well, it's easy! (opens the floor revealing Roger at his desk looking up) Because I'm the boss of you! Nyah! (Closes the floor.) Ahh, this has already been a very productive day. (Melanie walks in with a huge stack of papers.) H-Hey, what's all this?
Melanie: More legislation that requires your signature, sir. (she leaves)
Doofenshmirtz: But I hate homework! I'd rather just play with this snowglobe. (Another anomaly appears and sucks the snowglobe out of his hand.) Oooh, oh! Oh, man, this is serious! I thought for sure my machine would've turned itself off when it disappeared, but it's still creating rifts in the space-time continuum! (pushes intercom) Melanie, bring me another snowglobe.
Melanie: (on speaker) Um, what's a snowglobe?
Doofenshmirtz: (gasps dramatically)
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb in Nullville collecting all the Capri pants and spoons and putting them in a pile.)
Phineas: Wow, this stuff is pretty random. I hope no one at home is planning to baste a turkey while wearing suspenders and Capri pants. (no response) You're right. Mr. Keene is having a very bad day!
(A couple of tigers appear in the distance.)
Phineas: And so are we!
(A time rift appears and snowglobes fall from the sky.)
Phineas: Run, Ferb! It's raining snowglobes! A-And the tigers, they are also a reason to run!
(Cut back to Isabella's backyard.)
Candace: No, I really do have two brothers and you guys are really best friends. I can't believe you don't remember!
Isabella: That's impossible! Right, Baljeet?
Baljeet: Huh? Oh, sorry. I am too preoccupied with today's wild fluctuations in the space-time continuum. With pressure readings like this, I could potentially get sucked into a rift. And then none of you would remember I ever existed!
Candace: Huh? Huh? Huh? Huh? Huh? Huh? Huh? Huh?
(Cut to Perry on a windowsill.)
Major Monogram: (on watch) Sorry, Agent P, I've received confirmation that Doof's anti-thwarting legislation is completely legal and official. So I guess we're the bad guys now. And I guess this means you're on hiatus at least until his term is over. Monogram out.
Perry: (chatters and sighs)
Vanessa: (on another windowsill) Perry? What are you doing here? (Perry joins her) Problems with my dad, too? Welcome to the club. (sighs) I've been trying all day to tell him that I've been accepted by OWCA's internship program, but that I can't join if I'm living with OWCA's public enemy number one. (Perry holds up three fingers.) Okay. Number three. Well, I'm just gonna have to tell him and try to convince him to see things my way. Thanks for the chat, Perry. Wish me luck! (She goes inside and Perry waves at her.)
(Cut to Isabella's backyard where Baljeet is showing the others a formula on an easel. Candace is intrigued, but Buford and Isabella are bored out of their minds.)
Baljeet: ...and at the destabilization point, the vortex collapses in on itself, and it becomes an actual "hole" in space-time, sucking the nearest person or object into it and they are lost in the void.
Buford: OH, PLEASE STOP TALKING!!!
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb trying to avoid the tigers.)
Phineas: Okay, tigers aren't much more than big house cats, right? So what have we got that will distract cats?
(Ferb takes some suspenders, Phineas takes some Capri pants, and they roll them up into a giant ball.)
Phineas: We don't have a ball of yarn, but we do have a big bouncy ball of Capri pants!
(Phineas throws the ball toward the tigers and it latches onto a lamppost. The tigers run up to it and play with it.)
Phineas: That'll hold 'em for a while. Come on, Ferb! We gotta figure out a way back home.
(Cut to the First Daughter's suite.)
Doofenshmirtz: Sweetie pie, I'm back! Sorry it took me so long. Who would've thought being Tri-Governor would be so involved?
Vanessa: Dad, I got an internship at OWCA, so I have to move out.
Doofenshmirtz: What?! But that's the opposite of what I— They're the good guys! I thought for sure now that when I was Tri-State Governor that we'd be okay!
Vanessa: Dad, you're totally missing the point. You spend all of your time working on your ridiculous inators and I can't—
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, first of all, they're not ridiculous. Convoluted and ultimately pointless, maybe.
Vanessa: Oh, come on, Dad, you build them just to exact petty revenge trying to prove you're evil.
Doofenshmirtz: What? I'm evil. I-I am evil!
Vanessa: No, Dad. You're basically a nice guy who's pretending to be evil. And, you know, it seems like it's all out of obligation to your backstories, not something that truly comes from your heart.
Doofenshmirtz: Wow. So, it, it's... It's really not about all the success-loser thing?
Vanessa: Dad, look, this OWCA internship is something I really wanna do. And I don't think this lifestyle choice is making you happy either. Is it?
(Beat.)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow again.
Vanessa: Look, all I'm saying is try something different.
Doofenshmirtz: Like a...Like a new inator?
Vanessa: No, like try to be a good guy.
Doofenshmirtz: A good guy? Me? I can be... Well, I guess I could. I-I could be a do-gooder, doing good, just for the sake of... doing good, or, er, what exactly do good guys do?
Vanessa: Well, they—
Doofenshmirtz: Eh, it doesn't matter. Anyway, I get it. I understand now.  There's just one thing I gotta do before the whole thing starts over ag—
(Clock transition.)
(Cut to Candace back in her bed.)
Candace's alarm: —know what we're gonna—
(She shuts it off.)
Candace: Ah. (gets up) Oh, man! I gotta start all over again!
(Cut to Doof back in his bed.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, man! I looped too soon, and I didn't have time to be good! (He disintegrates his lamp again.)
Norm: Wakey wakey!
Doofenshmirtz: Norm, stuff your cake!
Norm: Stuffing it, sir! (He puts the cake on his face.)
Vanessa: Hey, Dad, do you have a minute?
Doofenshmirtz: Vanessa! Yes, yes, I know, you, you'd like to move in with your mother and you want to intern at OWCA and my being evil creates a conflict.
Vanessa: Um, yeah. How did you know—
Doofenshmirtz: Let's just leave it at I know and I vow to be good from now on so your worries are over.
Vanessa: Wow, you're kind of freaking me out.
Doofenshmirtz: Yes, yes, I'd be obnoxious if I wasn't so charming. Anyway, I have one more inator to complete and I've got to do it fast, so I could really use your help.
Vanessa: What's the inator?
Doofenshmirtz: The Time-Straighten-Out-inator! It straightens out time and keeps it from looping.
Vanessa: I think I'm looping.
Doofenshmirtz: Exactly!
(Cut to Baljeet's house. Baljeet appears in his bathrobe yawning and getting the doorbell.)
Baljeet: I am coming!
(Baljeet opens the door to reveal a very sleepy Buford and Isabella and an alert Candace, all in their pjs.)
Candace: Morning, Baljeet. Got to get an early start today. You kids chat, I'll get the thingy.
Baljeet: Um, who is that girl in the bathrobe?
Buford: I was so asleep.
Isabella: She made us come over here.
Baljeet: Yes, but who is she?
(Candace gets the time-space continuum reader.)
Candace: Got it! (to Baljeet) Here, Dr. Genius Boy! Take this and check out the space-time continuum.
Baljeet: (takes the device) I do not know what that will prove. The space-time continuum is remarkably stable, and—Oh, my goodness!
Candace: Blah blah blah blah blah, you could disappear forever and so could every memory of your existence. So here's the part you need to pay attention to! Are you listening?
Baljeet: I am totally listening!
Buford: I am so not listenin'.
Isabella: Me neither.
Candace: I have two brothers and you guys are all best friends. But now they're gone and nobody remembers them because of the space-time continuum thingy. Now, this is the part of the conversation where you tell me how you're gonna get my brothers back.
Baljeet: Well, they must have disappeared through a temporal rift. If we could calculate the location of the next rift, we could just throw in a rope with a life preserver tied to the end of it and pull it out.
Candace: Oh, really? A little donut-shaped pool toy is gonna save the universe?
Buford: (eating a donut) Ya had me at "donuts", lost me with everything else.
(Cut back to Doof's lab.)
Vanessa: So what you're saying is the days are repeating and you're the only one that notices.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, maybe that little friend of yours, too, 'cause she was inside the bubble.
Vanessa: What?
Doofenshmirtz: Not important. Check it out. Perry the Platypus should be coming in three, two, one.
♪ Perry! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Perry the Platypus! (Perry unbuckles himself) That's right, take it in, Perry the Platypus. No traps. And, no, telling you that there are no traps is not part of a trap. Though that would have been genius. Oh, I missed that one. I'm actually not doing any evil today! Seriously. I promise. (Perry looks at him with his arms crossed.) So, whadaya say, how 'bout lending an old nemesis a hand, huh, Perry the Platypus? (Perry just looks at Doof and holds out his arms.) Your eyes say, "No!" but your hands say, "Yes!"
(Cut to Baljeet operating his laptop in the Flynn-Fletcher backyard.)
Baljeet: Isabella, what is the resonance reading on the top meter?
Isabella: Forty-two point one six!
Baljeet: Candace, what is the cosine of eighty-one point seven?
Candace: (using a calculator) Lessee. Seventeen.
Baljeet: Buford, did the light just change from green to red?
(Buford is sitting at a machine and the light changes from green to red.)
Buford: Why should I tell you?
Baljeet: Okay. (Baljeet makes some calculations.) Right... (pointing on a map) There! In fifteen seconds, that is the point of maximum disturbance! So it should be appearing right over...there! (A groundhog gets sucked into the rift.)
Candace: Wow. Crazy how it sucked up that groundhog, huh?
Buford: The what?
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb making some calculations of their own.)
Phineas: If things from Danville pass into this dimension when a rift opens, maybe the door swings both ways. If we can calculate the rift openings, then we can get back to our Danville. Heads up, Ferb! Incoming!
(Several rifts appear and groundhogs pour out of them.)
Phineas: Huh. Groundhogs.
Ferb: I hope that doesn't mean six more weeks of "Nullville".
Phineas: Ahhhhh!
(Cut to Candace and the gang in Danville Park holding a life saver on a rope.)
Candace: Talk to me, Baljeet!
Baljeet: By my new calculations, the next rift should appear right over...there!
(A rift appears.)
Isabella: Quick! Throw the life preserver!
(Candace does so.)
Candace: Phineas! Ferb! If you can hear me, grab the life preserver and we'll pull you back!
Buford: What's a "life preserver"?
Isabella: I have no idea.
Candace: You guys are just gonna have to trust me on this!
(They rope gets pulled by the rift and the gang gets sucked in.)
All: Whoooooooa!!!!

Act V
(Open on Doof's lab where Vanessa and Perry are building the inator.)
Doofenshmirtz: Who'd have though we'd be such a good team? My daughter, my nemesis, and my hot beverage. (Takes a sip.) Hmm. Counter-clockwise on that jib bolt, Perry the Platypus. Okay, stop. Perfect, it's done. The days won't loop anymore and I'll have my daughter back! My life will be on a new path and the world will be saved thanks to brand new good guy, Heinz Doofen—
(Clock transition.)
(Cut to Doof back in his bed.)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, shmirtz! I was so close! (He tears the lamp from the ceiling.)
Norm: Wakey wakey!
Doofenshmirtz: (throws the lamp at Norm and it lands on Norm's head) Eat it yourself, Norm, I gotta get Vanessa, we gotta do everything faster!
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb in Nullville making calculations. A time rift opens and the life preserver drops down followed by Candace and the gang.)
Phineas: Hi, guys! So good to see you!
Isabella: (gasps)
(The dramatic kissing music from "Act Your Age" plays as Isabella sees Phineas.)
(Flashback Montage: Scenes of Phinabella from Flop Starz, The Chronicles of Meap, Hide and Seek, One Good Scare Ought to Do It!, That Sinking Feeling, Happy New Year!, Phineas and Ferb Summer Belongs to You!, What A Croc!, Minor Monogram, That Sinking Feeling again, Bee Day, Troy Story, It's No Picnic, The Klimpaloon Ultimatum, SBTY again, and SBTY a third time.)
Isabella: (lovelorn) Phineas! (normally) Hey, Phineas.
Baljeet: (gasps) Spoon!
(Flashback Montage: Various scenes of Baljeet using a spoon.)
Baljeet: Oh, how I have missed spoons!
Buford: Orange! (dramatic music; suddenly winds down) Eh...not really gettin' a big rush of emotions over this.
Candace: And here are the Capri pants.
Isabella: How can you tell they're Capri pants? Maybe they're just regular pants for someone with shorter legs.
Candace: (throws the pants away) The important thing is—
Buford: (offscreen) Hey!
Candace: —my brothers are here and they're safe! (She runs up to them and hugs them.) I'm so glad you guys are all right!
Phineas: Thanks, Candace! It's great to see you, too!
Candace: Wow, I guess now that we're gone, too, Mom and Dad don't even remember having children. Their lives must be so empty.
(Cut to the Flynn-Fletcher house.)
(Song: Platypus Walk)
♪ Walk the Platypus Walk ♪
(Cut to the living room where Linda is dressed as a Vegas showgirl and Lawrence is dressed like a pimp and they are dancing around.)
(Cut back to Nullville.)
Isabella: Everything here is so gray and lifeless.
Baljeet: This place must exist outside the flow of time. Candace, you were the only one of us outside the loop. Were the looping intervals decreasing in chronological amplitude?
Candace: No, they were, um... Wait, what does that mean exactly?
Baljeet: Were the days getting shorter?
Candace: Yes, the days kept getting shorter and shorter.
Baljeet: (shudders) The time pocket is dissolving!
Buford: And where does that rate on the... "good-bad" scale?
Baljeet: Buford, when the time pocket ceases to exist, so will we!
(Dramatic closeups on Buford, Phineas, Ferb, and Isabella. Zoom out on Isabella revealing she's wearing a pair of Capri pants.)
Isabella: See what I mean? One woman's Capri pants is another's... What'd I miss?
(The rest of the gang simply stare in blank space.)
(Cut to Doof's lab.)
Doofenshmirtz: Vanessa!
Vanessa: Dad, I have to talk to you—
Doofenshmirtz: Help me build my inator! Hurry! Quick!
Vanessa: What're we doing?
Doofenshmirtz: Building a Time-Straighten-Out-inator.
Vanessa: (sighs) Dad, we really need to talk!
(Agent P arrives.)
Doofenshmirtz: There you are! Perry the Platypus, grab a screwdriver and help us!
♪ Perry! ♪
(Cut back to the gang.)
Baljeet: Okay, this paper towel represents the space-time continuum. Normally, it moves in a straight line, (he puts the paper towel on a hook) but something has disrupted the flow. Now time cannot move forward and it puts enormous strain on the fabric of time (tears the paper towel) and tears the fabric! So now there is a little less space-time fabric to work with. The days are getting shorter. Now, you take this shortened piece of space-time (puts the paper towel on the hook and tears it again) and loop it again. Do this enough times (crumples the paper towel and puts it in his pocket) and pretty soon you do not have anything left. What I cannot seem to figure out is what could have possibly caused the space-time disruption in the first place? And an even bigger conundrum is how Candace is standing outside of the space-time interruption and somehow knew about its effects.
(The gang looks at Candace.)
Candace: (nervous chuckle as she pulls on her shirt collar) Yeah, that's a puzzler. But you know that old saying: "Never question the source of a...temporal time...space...loop thingy."  Heh heh. Eh.
Phineas: Really?
Buford: Yeah, I've heard that.
Baljeet: Well, we have to build something to close the hole and stop the looping.  But it will require einsteinium, tungsten wire, and micro-crystal plasma resistors.
Phineas: Well, stuff keeps getting sucked into this place. Maybe we can find a hi-tech machine or some lab equipment that uses all of that stuff.
Buford: What about this machine right here?
Phineas: Wow. Strange that we didn't notice that.
(Cut to reveal the Do-Over-inator. Ferb opens the top of the inator.)
Phineas: Einsteinium, tungsten wire, plasma resistors! Wow, this is awesome!
Candace: Don't touch that thing! (running to the inator) That's the machine that started all of...this...So...um...yeah...you gotta be careful with that thing.
Baljeet: And you know this how?
Candace: (sighs) When I was at Vanessa's, I may have accidentally intentionally pushed the button.
All but Ferb: (gasp)
Candace: Okay, I was having a rotten day. One crummy thing after another kept happening and when he told me that this thing can make the day start over again, I just couldn't help myself. And then the days just kept looping and I know I should've said something sooner, but I kept coming closer to busting you guys! And I swear I had no idea it would do any of this. I thought I'd get one do-over and that would be that, but then I saw it was creating problems and making things disappear and making people forget, but by the time I tried to stop it, it was too late, and I lost you guys! And I don't know how to fix it!
Buford: Well, if this thing's the problem, maybe we should press this big self-destruct button.
Baljeet: NOOOOO! If time stops looping, there will be no big tears in the fabric of space-time and no way for us to get home. We must find a way to get ourselves and that machine through one of the rifts and back into Danville. Then we can push the button and blow up the machine.
Buford: I call pressing the button!
Phineas: Come on, gang! We know what we have to do today!
(A tiger roars.)
Buford: Yeah. RUUUUUUUNN!!! (The gang runs away.)
(Song: Gotta Get Back in Time)
♪ When you're running out of time, ♪
♪ It's hard to know how fast you're goin'. ♪
♪ You could be a minute or an hour late; ♪
♪ There's just no way of knowin'. ♪
♪ And when I say we're running out of time, ♪
♪ I don't mean time is depleted, no. ♪
♪ No, we're not running late, ♪
♪ We're just physically outside of the flow. ♪
♪ (By the "flow" we mean chronological time.) ♪
♪ We gotta get back in time. ♪
♪ (We gotta get back in time.) ♪
♪ We gotta get back in time. ♪
♪ (We gotta get back in time.) ♪
♪ We gotta-gotta get back, ♪
♪ Gotta-gotta get back in time! ♪
♪ (We gotta get back in time, yeah!) ♪
♪ I mean, we have to get back into the flow of time ♪
♪ But also that we have to do it fast, ♪
♪ Because we're runnin' out of time, ♪
♪ But not the way I said that earlier. ♪
♪ (Not the way I indicated earlier.) ♪
(The gang have completed building a rather fancy looking catapult.)
Phineas: Well, it's not pretty, but we did it.
Buford: I dub thee "The Buford van Stomm Time Catapult". I won the naming rights fair and square.
Phineas: C'mon, guys! No time to lose! How's it lookin', Baljeet?
Baljeet: It looks like the next anomaly will appear any second now. I am working on the exact coordinates, but there is significant interference. It looks like there may be multiple rifts coming.
Phineas: As long as we can hit one of 'em. Stand by your hand cranks, people!
Baljeet: Here they come!
(Automobiles begin to fall from the sky.)
Phineas: It's cars! Baljeet, what are those coordinates?!
Baljeet: Got them! 34 degrees, 10 minutes, 15 seconds north. 15 minutes, zero seconds west.
Phineas: Launch now!
(The catapult is launched.)
Candace: Where is the tear?! Where is the tear?!
Baljeet: Any second!
(A rift suddenly appears in front of them.)
The gang: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHH!!!
(The gang get sucked into the rift.)

Act VI
(Scene opens on Doof's lab.)
Doofenshmirtz: How're ya doin' back there, Perry the Platypus?
(Perry emerges from under the inator and gives a thumbs up.)
Doofenshmirtz: Takes care of that. Let's plug this baby in and get her goin'!
Vanessa: Are you sure it'll work?
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, yeah, absolutely. There's a guaranteed 55% chance of success, so we're...we're good to go.
Vanessa: Wait, so there's still a 45% chance that it won't do anything?
Doofenshmirtz: Of course not, it's not gonna do nothing. There's also a 45% chance it'll destroy everything in existence.
Vanessa: What?! Dad, you have to tell us things like this!
(Cut to the backyard. Phineas and the gang crash land back and the Do-Over-inator tumbles into a position far away from them.)
Phineas: Is everyone okay?
Buford: Aw, my muffins got smashed.
Candace: Come on! No time to lose! Literally!
(They run up to the Do-Over-inator.)
Phineas: Okay, Baljeet, just to confirm, destroying the machine will put the space-time continuum back to normal.
Baljeet: Yes. And we need to do it quickly. The time loops are accelerating exponentially and—
(Clock transition.)
(Cut to Doof once again finishing his inator.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh. We're starting here now. Hey, it has been brought to my attention that I should tell you guys there's a 55% chance this will work, but a 45% chance that it'll destroy reality as we know it.
Vanessa: What?!
Doofenshmirtz: Absolute worst-case scenario.
Vanessa: Okay, what happens if we don't push it?
Doofenshmirtz: If we do nothing, there's a hundred percent chance that the time pocket will dissolve and it'll destroy every— Y'know, there's a whole illustration I can do with a paper towel and a hook, but I don't have time.
Vanessa: Okay, we have to take a moment and think about the—
(Clock transition.)
(Cut to the backyard. Phineas and the gang crash land back and the Do-Over-inator tumbles into a position far away from them.)
Buford: Oh, man! That was quick!
Phineas: The days must be compressing to this exact point!
Candace: No time to lose! Move! Move! Move!
(She and the gang run up to the inator.)
Phineas: Hurry, guys!
(Clock transition.)
(Cut to Doof once again finishing his inator.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, here's the odds. Save the day: 55%. Destroy the universe as we know it: 45%. But do nothing at all: a hundred percent chance of the end of time. So whadaya say?
Vanessa: Whoa.
Doofenshmirtz: Good answer! How 'bout you, Perry the Platypus? Come on, if you got something to say, now's the time.
(Perry starts to open his mouth to chatter, but the clock transition appears again.)
(Cut to the backyard. Phineas and the gang crash land back and the Do-Over-inator tumbles into a position far away from them.)
(Candace begins to run up to the inator, then stops and gets a spoon out of her skirt.)
Phineas: (offscreen) The time loop is getting too short!
Buford: (offscreen) What if I throw Baljeet?
Baljeet: (offscreen) You are just using this as an excuse!
(Clock transition.)
(Cut to Doof once again finishing his inator.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, I gotta tell ya, there's a lot of risk involved, but we've discussed it over, like, three loops already, and I think this is our only option. Are you with me?
Vanessa: Yeah, I am.
(Doof smiles and looks at Perry.)
Perry: (thumbs up and chatters approvingly)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, I should have just about enough time to press this button if I'm not too overly dramatic about it.
(Cut back to the backyard. Phineas and the gang are already on the ground.)
Phineas: We can't reach it! There's just not enough time!
(Candace hurls the spoon at the inator. Split screen to the spoon, Candace, and Doof in slow motion. The spoon hits the self-destruct button and Doof hits his inator button. Both Doof and Candace, along with the spoon, swirl around in a blue vortex. Clock transition. Cut to the gang lying around the tree. They get up.)
Baljeet: D-Did it work?
Phineas: (gasps)
Linda: Okay, kids. Pie's almost ready. Anybody want some fresh orange juice in the meantime?
Lawrence: I used a spoon to squeeze them.
Buford: Orange juice!
Isabella: Yay!
Buford: There's the emotional attachment to oranges I've been lackin'! (He gives Isabella a high eight.)
(Cut back to Doof's lab.)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, we're not destroyed, so that's a good sign.
Vanessa: Uh, but did it work?
Norm: Muffin time, sir!
Doofenshmirtz: We are back in business, baby girl! (hugs Vanessa)
Vanessa: Yes! Dad, I'm so proud of you! You did it!
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, I'd do anything for you, pumpkin pants! After we dismantle this thing, I don't know what I'm gonna do with myself. I've got no experience being a good guy.
Vanessa: Well, I'll stick around and help you figure it out. I hear OWCA is looking for a few good animals.
Doofenshmirtz: Well, I was raised by ocelots!
(Perry discovers the inator wasn't even plugged in, but decides to let Doof have this victory.)
(Cut to the backyard where the gang are enjoying their orange juice glasses.)
Candace: Now, that was an eventful day!
Baljeet: That was an eventful summer.
Isabella: What was your favorite part, Phineas?
Phineas: Of the summer?
Isabella: Yeah! What was your favorite thing we built?
Phineas: Memories.
Buford: Oh, come on!
Baljeet: Oh, really corny!
Phineas: No, I'm serious! We've done a lot of great stuff. How can I choose?
Buford: Yeah! Remember the time we went into space??
Baljeet: Which time?
Buford: The time we made the ice cream! Duh!
Isabella: And remember the rollercoaster, where we...
(The dialogue fades over the song.)
(Song: Curtain Call/Time Spent Together)
♪ Summer is done, ♪
♪ And we've had our fun, ♪
♪ But this isn't the end of our story. ♪
♪ So for nostalgia's sake, ♪
♪ Let's just take a break. ♪
♪ Sit back and take inventory. ♪
♪ We've done so many wondrous things ♪
♪ And there's still so much to do, ♪
♪ But I make the most of every day ♪
♪ Whenever I'm with you. ♪
♪ Because... ♪
♪ It's not about the summer sun ♪
♪ Or even all the things we've done. ♪
♪ It's not about the change in the weather. ♪
♪ It's just about the time we spend ♪
♪ With our family and with our friends. ♪
♪ It's just about the time spent together! ♪
♪ It's just about the time, ♪
♪ Not the weather. ♪
♪ It's just about the time ♪
♪ Spent together. ♪
(At this point, the entire main cast, including Phineas and the gang, Monogram, Carl, Doof, Agent P and the Fireside Girls are performing as a band on a stage in the backyard.)
Phineas: ♪ It started real simple with a cool rollercoaster, ♪
♪ An awesome beach party, then we raced stock cars. ♪
♪ We were one-hit wonders with a big hit song, ♪
♪ And in a special two-parter, we sent Candace to Mars. ♪
♪ We built treehouse robots, hunted Bigfoot and a mummy, ♪
♪ Got the band back together and our parents, too. ♪
Candace: ♪ When my brothers got busted, it was only a dream. ♪
Phineas: ♪ But who had that dream? Was it Perry or you? ♪
Candace: Actually, I think my dream was inside of Perry's dream.
Buford: My mind is blown!
Phineas and the cast: ♪ There's been a hundred and four days ♪
♪ Of summer vacation ♪
♪ We've had a lot of fun ♪
♪ And sung a lot of songs. ♪
♪ So now, it's time for a big celebration ♪
♪ Cuz it's been a great summer ♪
♪ And we thank you for comin' along! ♪




The cast: ♪ Thank you for comin' along! ♪
♪ Thank you for comin' along! ♪


Fireside Girls: ♪ Thank you all for comin' along, just wanna... ♪
♪ Thank you all for comin' along! ♪



Buford: ♪ Just wanna thank you all for comin' along! ♪


Doofenshmirtz: ♪ I'm six foot two, and I fight a little platypus! ♪
♪Ya think I'd be victorious just every now and then. ♪
♪ I've had a whole lot of schemes and a lot of inators! ♪
♪ But I failed.. ♪.
Doofenshmirtz and the cast ♪ Over and over and ♪
♪ Over and over ♪
♪ And over and over again! ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Aw... But it was fun, though!
Phineas: ♪ We spent a day fighting pharmaceutical zombies, ♪
♪ Would've solved cold-fusion but did fashion instead. ♪
♪ We met Klimpaloon and Meap and the Lake Nose Monster ♪
Phineas, Candace, and Ferb: ♪ But we're still baffled by the Giant Floating Baby Head. ♪
Phineas and Isabella: ♪ We played Hockey Z-9 and Football X-7, ♪
♪ We went 'round the world and to the very edge of space. ♪
Phineas and Baljeet: ♪ We met our doppelgängers in the second dimension. ♪
♪ Isabella kissed me but I got my mind erased... ♪
Isabella: Wait, what?
Phineas: (winking) You just wait 10 years!
Everybody: ♪ There's been a hundred and four days of summer vacation ♪
♪ We've had a lot of fun, and sung a lot of songs, ♪
♪ So we think it's time for a big celebration ♪
♪ And it's been a great summer, ♪
♪ So we thank you for comin' along! ♪




The cast: ♪ Thank you for comin' along! ♪
♪ Thank you for comin' along! ♪
♪ Thank you for comin' along! ♪


Fireside Girls:  ♪Thank you all for comin' along, just wanna... ♪
♪ Thank you all for comin' along, just wanna... ♪
♪ Thank you all for comin' along, just wanna... ♪


Phineas: ♪ Comin' along! ♪
♪ Thank you for comin' alooooooonnnng! ♪
♪ Comin' along! ♪


Everybody: ♪ Thank you for comin' along! ♪
(The door is heard opening.)

End Credits
Linda: Anyone want some pie?
Phineas: Yes. Yes we do.
(Ferb pushes a remote and the stages descend into the ground and the entire cast walks into the house, leaving their instruments on the stages. Before Candace walks in, she gives her brothers the "I'm watching you" signal, but then smiles and points at them, and her brothers wink and point and smile back.)
♪ It's just about the time, ♪
♪ We spent together. ♪
♪ It's just about the time ♪
♪ We spent together ♪
♪ With you. ♪
(After the credits finish rolling, Phineas walks back into the house, but before entering, however, he walks back out to wave goodbye to the viewers one final time before going back in.)
THE END



Contents[show]
Prologue
(Scene opens on a carnival at night. A car pulls up. A rather round looking gentleman comes out accompanied by two accomplices wearing sunglasses and berets. Perry the Platypus appears in the dunking booth. He pops out of the water and signals, to a hyena trainee, Harry the Hyena. Harry accidentally hits the target and dunks Perry.)
Harry the Hyena: Oh? Hee-hee-hee-hee-hee-hee-hee! (grunts) Heh-heh-heh-heh-heh!!
(Cut to another part of the carnival. A red macaw trainee, Maggie the Macaw, hides among the stuffed animal prizes. She takes out binoculars from her fedora. In another section, a Siamese cat trainee, Karen the Cat, is just standing around. Cut to Doof's bedroom. His alarm clock on the floor goes off. Doof shoves his lamp off his nightstand and feels around for the clock and falls out of his bed.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, no! The mission!
(Song: O.W.C.A. Files)
Come on!
Major Monogram: These are the stories of the agents of the O.W.C.A. These are the OWCA Files!
♪ We got animal agents wearing brown fedoras ♪
♪ If you're a villain then ya can't ignore us ♪
♪ Your evil plan is gonna fall before us ♪
♪ I will explain it better when we get to the chorus ♪
♪ 'Cause if you find yourself hanging out on a limb ♪
♪ And your chances of survival are increasingly slim ♪
♪ All the odds are stacked against you and your prospects are grim ♪
♪ Call the Organization Without a Cool Acronym ♪
♪ It's the OWCA Files (yeah!) ♪
♪ (the OWCA Files)
♪ It's the OWCA Files ♪
♪ (the OWCA Files) ♪
♪ It's the OWCA Files (the Organization Without a Cool Acronym!) ♪
♪ (the OWCA Files) ♪
♪ It's the OWCA Files ♪
♪ (the OWCA Files) ♪
♪ OWCA! ♪

Act I
(Scene opens back on the carnival. Perry is climbing up the log flume while Harry tosses him a rope. A tray stops the water and Perry slides down.)
Harry the Hyena: Huh? Ha ha ha ha ha!
(Cut to Karen and Maggie who are over by the swings. Maggie ties a rope while Karen hops onto a swing and Maggie attempts to catch her. Cut to the bumper cars, where Perry and Harry are. Perry lets Harry into the car and puts a lock and chain onto a handle and carries a baseball. Cut to the enemies. The leader takes the top off his cotton candy revealing gold and jewels. The accomplices carry briefcases filled with cash. Perry takes his best swing at the target on the log flume, but Karen wants to play with it. Perry takes it away from Karen and hits the target, releasing all of the log flumes.)
Leader: Huh?
Enemies: Yaaaaahhh!!
(Perry turns on the swings and the enemies get trapped in the bumper cars.)
Perry: (whistles)
(Cut to Karen on a bumper car with a gate attached to it being driven by her and Harry. They trap the villains. Perry gets his end of the gate locked, but Karen doesn't have a clue, allowing them to escape. Perry chases after them, retrieving his scooter from a clown-shaped bush. But Carl arrives on his golf cart.)
Carl: Whoa, whoa, whoa, Agent P, stop right there! Shut it down! Stop the exercise!
(Cut to outside. A dome is lifted over the carnival revealing it to be a simulation.)
Carl: Agent P, nowhere in the O.W.C.A. training manual does it say, "Abandon your team and apprehend the suspect by yourself." You're not a lone wolf anymore. Your team lacks focus and they need your leadership.
Harry: Ha ha ha!
Maggie: Learn to drive, you jerk!
Carl: Heck, one of your trainees didn't even show up.
Doofenshmirtz: No, no! I'm here! I'm here! (arrives with some rockets) Just a little late! I'm here! Phew! But it's okay, I made this to help.
Carl: You can't shoot that at a suspect! Are you crazy?! It would blow them to smithereens!
Doofenshmirtz: What's the big deal? I blow up all the time.
Carl: Nevertheless, individually, your scores look promising, but there's still a big problem with teamwork.
(Cut to Harry and Doof imitating the picture of two animal agents holding hands. Doof lets go.)
Doofenshmirtz: Hey, bub, it's just a piece of clipart.
Harry: Hee hee hee hee hee...
Carl: And, Doofenshmirtz, you're lucky you're legally considered an ocelot, or you wouldn't be here at all!
♪ Wah wah wah ♪
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah. I'd say that's probably the first time anyone has described my being abandoned by my parents and raised by Central American wildcats as "lucky".
♪ Wah wah wah wah ♪
(Zoom out to reveal the wah-wah music coming from Harry playing the trumpet with a plunger mute.)
Doofenshmirtz: You're gonna be wearing that thing in a second.
Harry: Heh...heh heh heh...
Doofenshmirtz: Besides, I've, I've given up evil.
Carl: Look, if you guys can't pass this training exercise, there's no way you'll complete "Town Square Riot", "Freeway Assault", or "Escape the Ancient Ruin". Agent P, your trainees need to learn how to work together as a team or they're never gonna earn their black hat bands. And, uh, Karen? (takes out a laser pointer and points it at Karen, who is chasing a butterfly) Karen the Cat. Pay attention. Karen, I'm over here.
Karen: Meow.
Carl: Follow the light. That's right. Now, you're going to have to do the entire training exercise again.
OWCA Day-Players: Yay! High five!
Carl: No, I'm not approving overtime. We'll do it without you day-players.
OWCA Day-Players: Awwww...
OWCA Day-Player: Come on. Let's just storm out as if we have somewhere else to go.
(Carl's watch beeps.)
Major Monogram: Carl, when you're finished with Agent P's team on the backlot, return to headquarters immediately.
Carl: Sorry, Agent P. Gotta go. (gives Perry the laser pointer and the manual) Carry on. And remember! Teamwork!
Doofenshmirtz: Uh, can we still use this thing? (He activates the rocket and it blasts into an unknown area.) Heh heh heh. Well, y'know, hopefully that didn't hit anything important.
(Cut to Carl driving up to the new and improved OWCA headquarters. He skids leaving some smoke which infects the Bug Trio from Doof 101.)
Napoleon: The dust clears and here we are.
♪ OWCA! ♪
Napoleon (cont'd): OWCA Secret Headquarters.
Wendell: Doesn't look very secret to me.
Napoleon: Be that as it may, today is the day that we will become OWCA's first insect agents.
Wendell: But they never responded to our applications.
Napoleon: Yes, and I can't understand why. We mailed them in on time, right before the year-end deadline.
(Cutaway to the Bug Trio putting their letter in the slot.)
Major Monogram and Agents: Three, two, one!
Carl: Happy New Year!
(Cut back to the Bug Trio.)
Napoleon: It's possible that our applications have fallen through the cracks. Which is why we are following up with a personal visit. That's how you get noticed, and that's how we will become agents. Imagine fighting international supervillains, traveling to exotic locales.
Wendell: And I'm gonna get all kinds of cool spy stuff, like a jet pack, a tuxedo and scuba fins!
(Cutaway to Wendell in his house wearing all those.)
Wendell: Yeah! That oughta do it! (He turns on his jet pack setting his house on fire and bumping into the ceiling.) Napoleon, I can see your house from here!
(Pan left to Napoleon at his house pulling down his window shade.)
(Cut back to where we left the Bug Trio.)
Wendell: How 'bout you, Floyd? What do you want? Uh, a fountain pen that shoots lasers? (gasps) Or a car that shoots fountain pens?
Floyd: I want a monkey.
Napoleon: Mmm, yes. For whatever twisted reason, you shall acquire your primate.
Floyd: Monkey.
Napoleon: Yes, a monkey is a... You know what? Nevermind. My point is, now that we're here, all we have to do is get someone's attention. Ah, here comes a helpful looking lad now. Excuse me, sir— (Carl steps on the bugs) Obviously, we need to try a different approach.
Floyd: I still want a monkey.
(Cut to Monogram and Carl at the window.)
Major Monogram: Carl, this new facility is really impressive. Now, tell me again where you found the money for all these improvements.
Carl: I just solved a small ongoing accounting error. You kept putting decimal points where you needed to put commas.
Major Monogram: Oh, I see! Improper punctuation. Say, how is Agent P's team shaping up?
Carl: Well...
Major Monogram: Great! Agent P is the best we have. If anyone can get that team in shape, it's him.
Carl: Yes, sir, but I—
Major Monogram: Carl, isn't it time that we talked about the elephant in the room?
Carl: What do you mean, sir?
(Long shot to reveal Agent E with a green collar around his neck holding a newspaper and itching.)
Major Monogram: Well, what exactly is he doing?
Carl: Obviously something's itching him.
Major Monogram: And Agent W, too.
(Cut to reveal Agent W using a pole as a backscratcher.)
Major Monogram (cont'd): It's really taking a toll on our brand new facility.
(The place starts to come apart.)
Carl: I don't understand all the itching. I handed out the new flea collars this morning.
Major Monogram: Then something's not right because OWCA is infested with fleas. Carl, activate emergency flea protocol 993-alpha.
Carl: (on a communication device) Agent C, activate emergency flea protocol 993-alpha.
(Cut to Agent C in a control panel doing nothing until he pecks at a key.)
Agent C: Bawk!
(Cut to outside. An alarm goes off saying "FLEAS". The facility goes on lockdown. One of the doors cuts off Agent I's tail.)
Agent I: (gasps)
(His tail grows back and he gives a thumbs up. Cut to Monogram and Carl addressing the agents.)
Carl: Okay, everyone. When the sensors stop detecting the presence of fleas, the doors will automatically open. Agents, prepare for flea fogging.
(Carl and all the agents put on gas masks as smoke fills up the room.)
(Cut to the Bug Trio.)
Napoleon: This must be our first test, gentlemen. As agents, we must know how to elude things like deadly toxic clouds.
Wendell: Just for the record, that was not me.
Napoleon: Yes, Wendell, I— Let's just get down in that drawer.
(They all jump into an open drawer, which closes. Cut to inside the drawer.)
Napoleon: Look at all this spy equipment! (looks at a pair of scissors) Some sort of giant cutting device, latex bands, miles of insect rope, giant fly— Aah! Whoa!
Floyd: (behind a magnifying glass) What is happening to me?
Napoleon: Look at this magnification apparatus that Floyd has found. This could be just the thing we need to get noticed. (sniffs, to Wendell) Okay, that was you.
Wendell: Guilty. Sorry.
(Cut back to the agents, who take off their masks.)
Carl: Fogging sequence complete. Flea problem solved, sir.
(The agents scratching themselves contradict Carl's theory.)
Major Monogram: First, the flea collars don't work and now fogging doesn't take? What kind of fleas are these?
Agent D: Grrr!
Carl: Agent D, would you mind? (lifts Agent D's flea collar and gets a flea with some tweezers) Hmm. Gotcha! Let me see something.
(Cut back to the Bug Trio in the drawer. Wendell and Napoleon are pulling a rope, while Floyd just stands there.)
Wendell and Napoleon: (grunting)
Napoleon: Okay. Gently lower it into place. All we have to do is get up there—
(Carl grabs the magnifying glass sending the Bug Trio on a wild ride.)
Napoleon: Aw, nuts.
(They crash into a package of mixed nuts, and the nuts land into a rotating fan.)
Napoleon: There. You see? It's a good thing we let go, otherwise, we would've ended up just like that peanut.
(The fan tips over and lands on the Bug Trio.)
Bug Trio: Whoa!!
(Cut to Carl examining a flea.)
Carl: Oh, my gosh! It's a tiny robot!
Major Monogram: What kind of a freak would make robot fleas?
(A strange-headed villain's hologram appears in between Carl and Monogram.)
Villain: Hello.. (laughs) Francis Monogram! (laughs)
Major Monogram: Great googly moogly! Who are you?
Villain: I am Professor Parenthesis. Although, I'm not really here. This is a holographic image.
Carl: Major, I'm looking up Professor Parenthesis in our database. There's not much on him.
Parenthesis: It's Parenthesis! Not Parenthesis!
Carl: Are you sure? Because it's spelled—
Parenthesis: You would think I would know how my own name is pronounced.
Carl: Yeah, you'd think.
Major Monogram: Why are you here?
Parenthesis: You don't remember me. We were in biology class together long ago. You barely noticed me.
Major Monogram: You're not that guy who kept eating his own hair, are you?
Parenthesis: No. That was Jeffrey Stovel.
Major Monogram: Were you the kid who got his chin stuck in that graduated cylinder?
Parenthesis: No, that was Jennifer Stillwell! And she was a girl! All you need to know is that I'm the one who sent those flea collars!
Major Monogram: Oh, are you that kid who wore that Robin Hood hat and passed out in the drinking fountain?
Parenthesis: Billy Youjeka! And can we move on, please?
Major Monogram: Yeah, sorry. So, why did you send those flea collars?
Parenthesis: Well, it's taken me 30 years to come up with a plan this diabolical. Five of those years were spent in villains academies. Then, after school, I started working on that screenplay I always wanted to write. But revenge was always on my mind, Francis Monogram!
Major Monogram: Stop saying my name like that!
Carl: Didja ever finish that screenplay?
Parenthesis: This is my screenplay! (hands Carl his screenplay) Right here. I'd like to get your notes.
Carl: Oh, I'd be happy to. (tries to pick it up, then remembers it's a hologram. To Monogram) Seriously?! You don't remember this jerk?!
Major Monogram: Were you the kid who...
Parenthesis: The robot fleas were actually inside the flea collars that you put on all of your agents. Now this remote will give me complete control over all of them!
(The robot fleas on the agents activate, turning their eyes red.)
Parenthesis: (maniacal laugh) And now, Francis Monogram, say goodbye to your precious OWCA! (maniacal laughter, then disappears, but reappears, to Carl) Seriously, though. I'll email you the screenplay. Tell me what you think. (disappears again)
(Cut to the agents who are zombie walking to Carl and Monogram)
Carl: Sir, he's turned all of our animal agents against us!
Major Monogram: Carl, are you familiar with the term "a-duh"?
(They run away and the corrupted agents go after them.)

Act II
(Scene opens on OWCA still in lockdown.)
Carl: (offscreen) What are we gonna do, sir?!
(Cut to Carl and Monogram running.)
Major Monogram: Do we have any agents on the outside? Anyone without a collar?
(Cut to Agent P joined by his rather inept teammates. His watch beeps.)
Major Monogram: Agent P. Come in, Agent P. Oh, good, you're all right. We need your help. OWCA's on lockdown. We're trapped!
(Cut to reveal Monogram on a dolly with the triangle set on it being pushed by a running Carl.)
Major Monogram: And all of the agents are being controlled by a sinister being named Professor Parenthesis.
Carl: That's Parenthesis, sir.
(Cut back to Agent P.)
Major Monogram: Oh, right. Anyway, Parenthesis is using robot fleas to control our agents' minds...
Carl: Left turn!
Major Monogram: Whoa! He snuck the fleas into OWCA Headquarters by hiding them in a shipment of flea collars.
Carl: Right turn!
Major Monogram: And now he's...Hey, Carl! Whoa! Anyway, he's controlling them with a small remote device. It's up to you and your team to find Parenthesis and destroy that remote. You're all we've got on the outside, so...
Carl: Wet floor!
Major Monogram: Whoa! Great googly moogly!
(The watch goes black.)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, that sounds kind of serious. Guess the first thing we should do is start looking for clues? Huh? Huh?
Maggie: (repeating what Monogram said) Shipment of flea collars!
(Cut to Karen in a box labeled "Contents: Flea Collars".)
Doofenshmirtz: It's the box those flea collars came in. And there's his return address. "The Bottom of the Grand Canyon." Hey, hold on a second. Parenthesis! I know that guy! I met him at an evil convention about three years ago. Walks around in those pink slippers pushing his screenplay on everyone. Sure. (closeup on Doof) And now we got his home address! (Long shot to reveal Doof alone.) Perry the Platypus, we should go to your secret lair and get your hover car... (the rest are already ahead) Okay, fine, just... Just remember it was my idea!
(Cut to the Bug Trio recomposing themselves.)
Napoleon: Well, that did not go as planned.
Wendell: (offscreen) Hey, Napoleon, there's peanut butter over here!
Napoleon: Floyd, your head is upside-down.
Wendell: There's peanut butter over here, too! (gasps) There's peanut butter all over!
Napoleon: Yes, well, there's always a silver lining, isn't there? I think the problem is we need to be up on their eye level.
Wendell: Like those guys up there?
(pointing to a bunch of butterflies on display behind glass)
Napoleon: Uh...yes?? And no.
Butterfly: Tell my wife I love her.
Napoleon: While th-their position is not advantageous, they are illuminated by a light, which gives me an idea.
(Cut to Phineas and Ferb's neighborhood. Doof joins the rest of his team out of breath.)
Doofenshmirtz: (panting) Man, you guys are... You guys are fast. Ah, so this must be your...your host family's house. What's with all the rockets in the r— Oh, those are mine! That must be where they landed! Wh-What a coincidence! Well, it's a good thing they're not armed or... (The rockets start beeping. Doof chuckles.) Don't worry, Perry the Platypus. Everything is gonna be okay.
(KABOOM!!!!)
Doofenshmirtz: If I can get a ladder, I can defuse them before they blow up. (Notices the house is destroyed.) Eh. Well, on the bright side, now we don't have to find that ladder.
(Perry walks in sadly to see his family's house destroyed.)
Doofenshmirtz: Wow, what a mess. But don't worry, Perry the Platypus. OWCA's got plenty of money now. They'll... (snaps fingers) They'll fix this place up before your host family even gets back and they'll, they'll replace all this junk with...y'know, pretty much identical junk. (Harry gives him a look.) What?
(Perry and Maggie look at the basement.)
(Cut to Perry's lair, now in shambles. Ropes drop down, which Perry and Harry rappel from. Another rope drops down, but Doof does not rappel from it. He falls to the ground, and lands in Perry's chair.)
Doofenshmirtz: AAAAAAAAAAHHHH!!!
Karen: REOW!!
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, see? A cat always lands on my feet.
Karen: Meow.
Doofenshmirtz: Ooh, Perry the Platypus, is this your lair? Nice! At least it, it would be if it wasn't so, y'know, blown to smithereens. (He picks up and throws away a Perry the Inaction Figure.) Oh, hey, an underwater diving capsule. (He knocks it over.) Man, I see why you never use it. ♪ Fragile! ♪ And is that a pressurized space suit? 'Cause that is not what you wore when we were in space. Hey, check this out! (Picks up the locket from Phineas and Ferb The Movie: Across the 2nd Dimension.) Oh, you look so young! Who's a widdle pwatypus?! (He hears Perry starting his hovercar.) Where do you think you're going? (He throws the locket in the toilet.) No-no-no-no-no-no, look. I know you might be a little upset, what with your house and your lair so exploded and all, and... And I have to admit that I feel...slightly responsible...
Maggie: (imitating the rockets) Beep beep beep beep beep beep beep beep beep... PYEOW!!!
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah, thanks for the recap, Maggie. Anyway, you can't just go off and solve this without me.
Harry: (snorts)
Doofenshmirtz: I was getting to you guys. I mean, without me and them. And the cat, wherever the...
Karen: (purrs)
Doofenshmirtz: Hmm. Anyway, I know we can't all fit in this, but...if we work together, there's a lot of blown up stuff lying around here, and I'm, I'm sure we can jury rig something that will carry, y'know, all of us. Like a well-bonded machine.
(Cut to later. The hovercar now has different things attached to it able to carry all the trainees.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, the welds aren't really bonded on this machine, so, y'know, try not to move around too much in flight. Grand Canyon, here we come!
Narrator: 5 hours later...
(Cut to Doof exhausted.)
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah. If anyone happens to see a canyon that looks sorta grandish, just speak up. Or maybe not speak up, maybe meow up, or squawk, er, whatever it is that you do, up.
Maggie: Are we there yet? (plucks a feather) Are we there yet? (plucks a feather) Are we there yet? (plucks a feather) Are we there yet?
Harry: Ha ha ha ha! Hee hee hee hee hee hee! (sighs, groans)
Doofenshmirtz: Yeah.
Doofenshmirtz and Maggie: Are we there yet?
Doofenshmirtz: (to Perry) I have no way of knowing, because I've never been there, and...you don't talk.
Maggie: Are we there yet? (plucks a feather) Are we there yet? (plucks a feather)
Doofenshmirtz: Man, these guys are really annoying. Doncha think?
(Cut to an upside-down shot of Perry driving with bloodshot eyes.)
Doofenshmirtz: I'm right, aren't I? Annoying. Yeah, I'm right.
(Cut to Parenthesis' evil lair.)
Parenthesis: ♪ Beautiful lunchtime, at my secret lair, in the Grand Canyon. ♪ Ah, I'm starving.
(Parenthesis sits down at a table and uncovers a dish revealing an eye droplet, which he drips on his tongue.)
Parenthesis: Well, that was delightful. I couldn't eat another gram.
(An alarm system beeps.)
Parenthesis: Well, well. It appears someone has flown into my airspace. Perhaps we should send a welcome party.
(Cut back to the agent trainees.)
Doofenshmirtz: Ah, the Grand Canyon. It's nice. You got the Colorado River, you got the giant robot fleas. you got these nice red rocks right h— (gasps) Wait a second! The Colorado River?! I thought we were in Arizona! (gasps) And wait another second! Giant robot fleas?!? Yeah, those are definitely the attack drones of an evil scientist. Yeah, y-you're gonna wanna punch it.
(Perry sets his hovercar from "Fast" to "Really Fast" to "Punch It!" as they make their getaway. Harry gets into the pressurized space suit ready to fight. Maggie adjusts her fedora. Karen just sits there.)
Doofenshmirtz: All right! Nice one! Oh, let me help. We gotta have some weapons around. Wait wait wait, what does this lever do? (pulls the lever several times) No, no, no, that, uh, it doesn't...it doesn't seem to do anything. (Cut to reveal Perry's seat hitting him, revealing what it does.)
(Perry takes the seat that is hitting him and throws it at one of the fleas.)
Doofenshmirtz: Give me something to hit him with. (Takes the football helmet Karen is sitting in.) Thanks, Harry.
Karen: REEEEERR!
Doofenshmirtz: Take that!
Maggie: We lost the cat! We lost the cat!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, relax. The cat's right... (realizes she's gone. Rotates his seat at the fleas.) Take that! And that! One for you, too! There you go! Uh-oh. Where's Harry? Oh, there he is! I see a bright future for that kid. Well, y'know, if we survive today. Oh, and there's Karen. Hi, Karen!
(A flea chomps on Perry's hovercar, and Doof and Perry jump out and land in the river. Cut to Parenthesis watching the hovercar crashing.)
(Cut back to OWCA Headquarters. The mind-controlled agents are walking around. Carl and Monogram are hiding in a vent.)
Carl: (whispering) The access vent won't take us any further.
Major Monogram: The hallway is crawling with compromised agents. We're gonna hafta do some creative sneaking, Carl. Follow my lead. (They sneak around.) The cobra. (They do a pose, while Agent C passes by, not noticing them. They start sneaking again.) Andalusian dog. (They pose again, while Agent F passes by.)
Agent F: Ribbit. Ribbit. Ribbit.
(They resume sneaking again.)
Major Monogram: Violin and candlestick. (They pose as Gary the Gander flies past them. They jump over some lamps and a desk chair offscreen.) Garden party.
Carl: (offscreen) Garden party?
Major Monogram: (offscreen) Just give me your ankles.
(Cut to the Bug Trio, who are adjusting some lamps.)
Napoleon: There. That should be sufficient wattage to illuminate us.
Wendell: Why do we wanna be laminated?
Napoleon: Not laminated. Illuminated. It means to have light shown upon us.
Wendell: Like a grape?
Napoleon: Yes. Like... Like a grape?
Wendell: Yeah, I saw a grape this morning.
Napoleon: And there was light shining on it?
Wendell: You saw it, too?
(beat)
Napoleon: Moving on. Do we have enough power for all these lights?
Wendell: Yup. We're all plugged into that plug collector thingy, and all we have to do is turn it on.
Napoleon: Well, let's do that then.
Wendell: Yes! And then we can all be laminated!
Napoleon: No, it's illu... You know what? Nevermind. Floyd, when we get up on the box, you throw that switch!
Floyd: I like laminated grapes.
(Cut back to Monogram and Carl in front of an emergency exit.)
Major Monogram: Come on, Carl. Let's get outta here! (he opens the door, but it is blocked) Carl, what the heck?!
Carl: Well, it never occurred to me that the emergency exit would be locked down, too.
Major Monogram: Isn't that something you should've checked before we crawled through all that duct work?
Carl: I suppose... but, I was... just having so much fun sneaking around with you.
Major Monogram: Actually, I was kinda havin' fun, too. Heh heh. Nevertheless, this isn't a situation to make light of.
(Cut back to the Bug Trio.)
Napoleon: Okay, Floyd. Make some light!
Floyd: (jumping off the garbage can onto the switch) Weeee.
(Cut back to Monogram and Carl as the light shines on them, blowing their cover.)

Act III
(Scene opens on the exposed Monogram and Carl.)
Major Monogram: Ooh! (chuckles) Uh, (points to his right) We went that way! (runs the other direction)
Carl: Heh heh heh... uhhhh... additional misdirect! (follows Monogram)
(The agents don't fall for it and chase after Monogram and Carl.)




Wendell: Down here!
Look down here!
Please!
Friends, we need you!


Napoleon:
Hello!
Hello!
Can you see and or hear us?!


Wendell: Floyd, focus the beam!
(Floyd points the magnifying glass in front of the lights, setting Napoleon and Wendell on fire.)
Floyd: Stop, drop, and roll, sir.
(Cut to the Grand Canyon, where the trainees are by the wreckage.)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, you know what they say. Any landing where you don't get stabbed with a fork is a good one. And I didn't get stabbed with a fork. Any of you guys? Hello? Harry?
Harry: (whistles)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, there he is. Impressive! Y'know, as, as evil lairs go, I give that, like, an eight. It looks like a classic mid-'60s megalomaniacal design. And the water feature is very nice. Fortunately, I know a thing or two about... (pull out to reveal Doof alone again) Sheesh! (Doof goes over to the others, who are looking at a scale model of the lair.) Oh, heh. Yeah, w-way to get the ball rolling there, Perry the Platypus. I-I see you're gonna use the... (looks at the manual) Standard Evil Fortress Infiltration Technique, or SEFIT. Man, these guys are really bad at acronyms. Good choice, though. Wh-What do I get to do? (stammers) What's my part? (Perry points behind Doof as he sees a coffee shop.) Oh, I'm the coffee guy. Good start. We're gonna need to stay sharp on this one.
(Doof runs over to the coffee shop. Cut back to the trainees. Perry now is showing figurines of all the animal agents and plotting what to do. Doof returns with the coffee.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, I'm back. Eh, who had the double espresso? (Harry takes it.) There you go. And a caramel macchiato. (Maggie takes it.) Maggie. And I guess that means that Perry the Platypus had the... Yes, the oolong tea, of course. And I got a scone, but it was like, five dollars. So I only got one. Oh, you got little figurines. There's Harry, and Maggie, and eh, where's my little guy? (Perry picks up a rock and paints a crudely-drawn Doof onto it.) Ah, that's sorta nice, it's... (Perry places Doof by the model of the coffee shop to make a point.) Oh, wh-wh-while you guys do that, I'll just be back...over... Alright, well, I guess I'll just be over... over here if you need me.
(Song: They Left Me Standing Outside)
♪ (Oooooh, ♪
♪ Ooooh, whooo whooo ♪
♪ Oooh, yeah yeah, yeah) ♪
♪ They look so focused, ♪
♪ They're makin' plans. ♪
♪ They're talkin' strategy ♪
♪ That doesn't include me. ♪
♪ They made a model of a hideout, ♪
♪ Little figurines, ♪
♪ But now my little guy's got ♪
♪ Shattered dreams. ♪
♪ They don't want me, they don't need me ♪
♪ Now I'm all alone. ♪
♪ Sittin' with this coffee ♪
♪ And a five-dollar scone. ♪
♪ I could help, but my hands are tied. ♪
♪ They left me standin' outside. ♪
♪ (They don't want me.) ♪
♪ They left me standin' outside. (They don't need me.) ♪
♪ (They don't want me.) ♪
♪ Oh, they left me standin' outside. (They don't need me.) ♪
♪ (Ooooh, whooo whooo ♪
Doofenshmirtz: I coulda helped. I understand the Standard Evil Fortress Infiltration Technique. Step one: Diversion.
(Cut to Parenthesis.)
Parenthesis: (to his robot fleas) Jason, Shirley, water is no longer coming out of my hole. Get down there and see what you can do about it.
Doofenshmirtz: (voiceover) Step two: Immobilization.
(Cut to Jason and Shirley looking at Karen as Harry speeds past them, knocking them over.)
Doofenshmirtz: Step three: Infiltration. They'll take them completely by surprise. They'll just walk right in the door past that giant lava lamp, and... Why would there be a giant? (record scratch) IT'S A TRAP!!
(The word "Duh" floats past Doof's head.)
(Cut to the Perry and the trainees inside the lair.)
Parenthesis: Ah, Perry the Platypus and friends. Right on time. Actually, you're a little early. (drops open the trap door) Ah, now you're on time!
(Cut to a dark room. Perry and the others are trapped inside a capsule, balancing on a cone.)
Parenthesis: Well, well, well, now that you're all bottled up, I'm free to go to OWCA for the culmination of my evil plan! In 28 minutes, my fleas will have worked their way into each agent's neuro-pathways. And then my mind control will be permanent! I will single-handedly take control of every OWCA agent! (to some fleas) Susan, Jim, Tracy, Connie, to the Parentho-Copter! (to the trainees) I hope you find my accommodations uncomfortable. (lights a wrecking ball on fire and releases it) And yes. Soon it will be worse.
(Pan down to reveal the room is rigged with explosives. Cut to Agent P and the others. He takes off his fedora, gets out his blowtorch, climbs on top of Harry and burns a hole through the top of the capsule. He starts to burn a hole through the bottom but Karen jumps on top of him.)
Karen: Meow!
(The capsule starts to drop down. Agent P burns a hole through one side. The side drops off and bangs onto one of the explosives.)
Doofenshmirtz: Aw, looks like you might need my help after all! Lucky for you I brought a rope, with a dreamcatcher on the end! That's what you call style! Anyway, alright, here, catch. (throws the dreamcatcher at Karen, but she pushes it off the edge) Uh, Karen, I don't think you're grasping this whole "grab the rope" concept. Can someone else get this one? (it gets tangled in the wrecking ball) Oh, great, now it's tangled in the... AAAAAHHHH!!! (The wrecking ball ends up in the capsule.) Wow! Did you guys see that? I almost got— Alright, minor setback. No problem. I'm just gonna have to come down there and get you myself. (Pushes a rubber raft through the door.) See, this is why I brought the raft.
(Cut to the trainees attempting to get out of the capsule. Cut to Doof hanging off the ledge.)
Doofenshmirtz: Okay, I might have a little bit of a pro— (falls down and ends up in the water. He gets on the raft but is surrounded by alligators.) Get back, you, before I get all Creole chef on you! (to the trainees) Come on, you guys! Jump! I gotcha! I gotcha! I got— (the trainees jump into the raft)
Karen: Reeeeeooww!
(Karen lands on Doof's feet.)
Doofenshmirtz: See? A cat always lands on my feet. Wait, nobody move. Here. (takes a selfie) That's goin' on my blog.
(The capsule cracks, and the shards land near the explosives.)
Doofenshmirtz: Well, uh, that can't be good.
(Perry takes the laser pointer and aims it at the end of the raft. Karen jumps to the laser and claws at the raft, sending it speeding away.)
Doofenshmirtz: Woo-hoo! Yeah! Woo-hoo! Woo! Woooo! I did it! I saved you guys and now we're safe! (some alligators land in their raft) Except for the fact that it's, you know, raining alligators. And secret lairs.
(The destroyed lair falls on the trainees.)

Act IV
(Scene opens on OWCA headquarters. Agent D surveys the hallways. Cut to Monogram and Carl hiding under a desk.)
Major Monogram: Good thing we found a hiding place, Carl. What is this? A dining room table or something?
Carl: It's a desk, sir.
Major Monogram: A desk we can both hide under? Whose office is this anyway?
Carl: It's mine, sir.
Major Monogram: Yours?! This is at least ten times bigger than my office!
Carl: Sir, that's not important now! We need to find a way to escape!
Major Monogram: And how do you rate your own bathroom?
Carl: It's actually a gym, sir.
Major Monogram: Is that a chocolate fountain?
Carl: Sir, listen. I got an idea. If we can get to the evacuation wing, we might be able to use one of the escape pods.
Major Monogram: What's up with the giant bear?
Carl: Oh. That was a gift from our contractor.
Major Monogram: That gives me an idea! But this conversation isn't over.
(Cut to a montage of Carl and Monogram making a disguise out of the bear, and the turn signals on Carl's bike.)
(Song: Friend Like Mine)
♪ You might have sugar, ♪
♪ You might have spice ♪
♪ But ain't nobody's got a friend like mine. ♪
Carl: I can't see back here, sir.
Major Monogram: You drew the short straw, Carl.
(Zoom in on the copy machine, where the Bug Trio is.)
Napoleon: Just a little higher. Ah, we've finally reached the summit. Come, gentlemen, it's time to get noticed!
Wendell: Oh, boy! Oh, sorry, Floyd, are you okay?
Floyd: Wendell, I've had an epiphany! In order for us to obtain our noble goal, we must evaluate the— (groaning) Ow.
Wendell: Sorry, Floyd, did you say something?
Floyd: I like trains.
Wendell: Oh, my! By my larva-making mother, would you look at that! It's like the floor is frozen, but it's warm. It's like warm ice. Did we discover this? We should call it "wice".
Napoleon: Actually, it's called glass.
Wendell: No. I think it should be some combination of warm and ice. Floyd, come take a look at this!
(Floyd hobbles his way over to the other two.)
Floyd: I need a face shoe.
Wendell: So, what's your plan, Napoleon?
Napoleon: Ah, it's quite simple, actually. We are standing atop a giant duplication device. A device that will not only copy our images, but will enlarge us as well. I simply need to program in the right size. Let's see. 200% enlargement. Okay, men, get on the glass platen, and get ready to be enlarged.
(Wendell and Floyd lie down on the glass.)
Wendell: All set, Napoleon!
Napoleon: And (jumps on the button) copy! Everyone smile for the camera. (The copier scans them) Excellent! Now we just have to wait for the toner to do its work.
Wendell Wow, it's a good thing that lid didn't fall on us. That would've hurt.
(The lid starts to creak, but then leans backward.)
Napoleon: Well, yes, Wendell, that was fortun—
(The electric fan from earlier appears out of nowhere and squishes the Bug Trio again.)
(Cut to Doof and the others walking away from the wrecked lair.)
Doofenshmirtz: Y'know, it, uh... It could've been worse. Uh, don't..don't all thank me at once. Knowing my talent has served my fellow agents is thanks enough.
(Cut to Perry opening the trunk of his hover car. Cut back to Doof with the others.)
Maggie: Rawk! Lousy rescue!
Doofenshmirtz: I wouldn't call it lousy, per se. A little off, maybe, but... Oh, come on. Harry the Hyena, it was a good rescue, wasn't it?
Harry: A-hee-ha-ha-ha-ha! A-ha-ha-ha ha ha ha ha. Eh, heh heh... Eh... Nah.
Doofenshmirtz: Karen the Cat? Anything? Uh, no? What did you think of the rescue, Perry the— (Perry throws the training manual at Doof) Ow! (Perry takes off in his jet pack) Hey, Perry the Platypus, you're leaving us?!
(Harry and Maggie look at each other and agree to leave Doof as well.)
(Song: Bits of All of Us)
(The words '"TEAM WORK" float in front of Doof's face.)
Doofenshmirtz: (shooing the letters away) Knock it off! Hope that's not permanent. Oh, I get it! H-Hey, hey, you guys, come back. Come back! Now, let me just explain.
♪ They say there is no "I" in teamwork, ♪
♪ But there's an "M" and there's an "E" (That's "me"). ♪
♪ I mean, you can't have a team without individuals, ♪
♪ On that we can agree. ♪
Wait a minute, guys. Bear with me just a second here, okay. Watch this, ready?
♪ You take the "T" from the end of "Doofenshmirtz", ♪
♪ And the "E" from "Karen the Cat", ♪
♪ Harry has an "A" in it and Maggie's got an "M", ♪
♪ So we're a team, my friends. That's that. ♪
Oh, that was easier than I thought it would be. If only we had a "W", we could spell out "teamwork".
Maggie: Macaw!
Doofenshmirtz: (gasps) That's right! "Macaw" has a "W" in it! So we can do it! Okay, here, from the beginning.
♪ You take the "T" that's very deep in "Doofenshmirtz", ♪
♪ The "E" from Karen the Cat, ♪
♪ Harry's got an "A" in it and Maggie's got an "M", ♪
♪ So we're a team, my friends, that's that. ♪
♪ So "macaw" gives us a "W", ♪
♪ We get "O" from "ocelot" (That's me!) ♪
♪ We get an "R" from Harry and a "K" from Karen, ♪
♪ And teamwork's what we've got. ♪
♪ That's right! Teamwork's what we've got! ♪
♪ So we just need to work together, ♪
♪ Cooperate and trust, ♪
♪ Cuz there is no "I" in "teamwork", ♪
♪ But there are bits of all of us! ♪
Okay, big finish!
♪ So we just need to work together (Together!) ♪
♪ Cooperate and trust (And trust!) ♪
♪ There may be no "I" in "teamwork", ♪
♪ But there are bits (There are bits) ♪
♪ That's right there are bits (there are bits) ♪
♪ Of all of uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuus! ♪
Okay, now let's spell out "collaborative alliance".
♪ There's a "C" in— ♪
No, no, no, I'm just kiddin'! I'm kidding! Come on back! Hey, uh, guys, you, y-you forgot the cat. (to Karen) They forgot you. And you're the cat.
(Cut back to OWCA headquarters.)
Carl: There it is, sir! The escape pod!
Major Monogram: Great! Let's get outta here!
Carl: Okay, sir, but be careful. There's a huge set of stairs.
(They tumble down the stairs offscreen yelling and crash into an escape pod.)
Major Monogram: (sarcastically) Well, that went well.
Carl: Sarcasm isn't helping, sir.
Major Monogram: Aw, there we go— Aw, ow! Ow! Ow! Ow!
Carl: Okay, this button launches the escape pod.
(Cut to outside.)
Major Monogram: (offscreen) Uh, Carl, how does the escape hatch work with, you know, this whole lockdown thing?
Carl: (offscreen) Uhhh...
(The escape pod tries and fails to get out of the building, leaving dents everywhere.)
(Cut to inside. The destroyed escape pod opens up letting Monogram and Carl to slide outside and out of their disguise.)
Major Monogram: Owwwwwww.
(Cut to a garage door, which is opened by Parenthesis.)
Parenthesis: Well, well, well, Francis Monogram! It's hostile takeover time!
Major Monogram: Carl, how was he able to override the lockdown?
Carl: Well, it opens from the outside, sir.
Major Monogram: Ehhh.

Act V
(Scene opens on Monogram and Carl surrounded by Parenthesis, the fleas, and the corrupted agents.)
Major Monogram: Okay, you made your point, Parenthesis. Apparently, I didn't notice you in school. Sad story. Boo-hoo. But why are you here?
Parenthesis: I'm here to make your days the darkest of grays and your nights the blackest of black. I want to see your smug smile melt away like the candles on a sad little abandoned birthday cake.
Carl: Sounds like he's here to bore us to death.
Parenthesis: As soon as my mecha-fleas completely override your agents' natural instincts, I will release them out into the unsuspecting world, where they will wreak havoc. And all you'll be able to do is sit and watch as the people of the world grow to deride and despise Francis Monogram and his monstrous OWCA as much as I do!!
Carl: (to Monogram) How about now?
Major Monogram: No, I still don't remember him!
(Cut to the Bug Trio admiring their photocopy.)
Wendell: Wow, Napoleon, we're huge!
Napoleon: Yes, this is bound to get us noticed.
Wendel: So how do we get them to see it?
Napoleon: Well, it would be preferable if it were at their eye level.
Floyd: We could build a paper airplane.
Napoleon: If we could find a staple remover, some dental floss... Wait, Floyd, what did you say?
Floyd: I want a monkey?
Napoleon: No, what did you just say?
Floyd: I want a monkey.
Napoleon: What were the last words out of your mouth?
Wendell: Well, actually, those were the last words out of his mouth. You asked him, "What did you say?" And he said, "I want a monkey." He said it twice, if you count this last time.
Napoleon: Well, I...I... Okay, Floyd, immediately before you said "I want a monkey" twice...
Floyd: I don't want two monkeys.
Wendel: Is this about the face shoe?
Napoleon: Oh, forget it! We're making a paper airplane!
(Cut to Parenthesis's countdown clock, which is at less than seven minutes.)
Parenthesis: Almost out of time! The suspense is delicious, don't you think? (laughs)
(Monogram notices something moving at the balcony.)
Major Monogram: Hey, Parenthesis, I wouldn't get too comfortable if I were you. Heh heh.
Parenthesis: What?
(Perry swings on a chair carried by a rope, knocking down the fleas, releasing Monogram and Carl.)
Major Monogram: Nice upholstery job, Agent P! We got this guy. You take down Parenthesis.
Parenthesis: Agents, you know what to do.
Agent E: (trumpets)
(The agents fight Perry.)
Parenthesis: Excellent! Soon all this will be mine! First thing I'll do is put that sofa back there on the atrium where it belongs. Then I'll—
(Perry kicks Parenthesis' head off.)
Carl: Oh, my gosh!
(Parenthesis' head lands on the sofa revealing his wires, and his electronic body topples over.)
Carl: Does that mean what I think it means?
Major Monogram: No. It means Parenthesis was... a robot.
Carl: Alright. Well, now I'm confused. What did you think I thought it meant?
(Cut back to the Bug Trio.)
Napoleon: There. This seems aerodynamically sound.
Wendell: Now all we need is a big rubber band and two palm trees to launch us!
Napoleon: You watch way too much TV, Wendell.
Wendell: Oh, just the one show.
Napoleon: But, perhaps some form of propulsion would be beneficial. (Looks at the fan.) Hmmm.
Floyd: Uh, guys. (cut to reveal Floyd's head not attached to his body) I think I got a paper cut.
Napoleon: Uh, Wendell.
Wendell: I'll go get the gauze.
(Cut to Monogram picking up the robot's head.)
Major Monogram: Well, I guess that's that. We should get that remote device and... (looks inside the body) Whoa! (the robot body grabs Monogram, and pushes Carl, and Perry onto the sofa.) Oh, no, I can't. (The robot body lifts Monogram up in the air so he can see inside.) What?
(Close up to reveal Parenthesis is actually a small blue flea.)
Parenthesis: (laughs maniacally) Aloha!
Major Monogram: Wait. You're a flea?
Parenthesis: Recognize me now?
Major Monogram: Why would I recognize a flea?
Parenthesis: See? See? There's that attitude again! (A TV set with multiple mechanical arms pops out of the robot's body. The TV shows the flea's face.) You've always looked down your nose at me. Well, now, who's beneath who?
(The arms grab Carl, and Perry, but Perry escapes.)
Parenthesis: He's getting away! He'll ruin everything! Hold these, guys. Susan, Jim, Tracy, Connie, you're with me!
(They follow Perry.)
(Cut to the Bug Trio on the paper airplane powered by the fan.)
Wendell: Napoleon, how are you steering this?
Napoleon: I'm not, Wendell. We are at the mercy of the wind! YEEHAW!!
(Cut back to Perry, who makes his getaway on Carl's golf cart.)
Parenthesis: Get him!
(The Town Square Riot simulation activates.)
Parenthesis: Where did the platypus go? (gasps) Connie! There you go. Lemme just straighten your collar. To the freeway!
(The fleas chase Perry in the Fairway Assault simulation.)
Parenthesis: How about a little oncoming traffic, you portentous platypus?
(The simulation activates.)
Parenthesis: Yes! Finish him!
(Perry swerves through the simulation tipping a fake truck over.)
Parenthesis: What's this?
(The truck crashes into an exit sign ending the simulation. Perry makes his way to the Escape the Ancient Ruin simulation, but Parenthesis arrives there.)
Parenthesis: Here, little semi--aquatic mammal. Here, boy. Nowhere to turn now! Oh, look, I'm wearing glasses. I'm a hipster.
(Perry backs away from Parentheis and the others, and crawls into the carnival simulation.)
Parenthesis: Okay, end of the line, platypus! You've nowhere to... Oooh, cotton candy! Give me some of that!
(Just like in the beginning of the episode, Perry hides in the dunking booth.)
Parenthesis: Does anyone see him? He's small, teal, wears a hat. Oh, come on. How hard is it to find a small platypus in a carnival setting? Don't say it! I just heard myself.
(Perry sees a baseball thrown at the target launching the log flume.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, yeah! Great throw, Harry!
Harry: Ha ha ha ha ha!
Maggie: (squawks)
(The swings launch.)
Parenthesis: Whoa!
(He crashes into the bumper cars, and the gates are driven by Harry and Doof.)
Maggie: Mmm, got it!
(Perry locks the other side.)
Doofenshmirtz: Woohoo!
Harry: Yeah!
(Perry walks up to the trainees smiling.)
Doofenshmirtz: Thanks for believing in your team, Perry the Platypus.
(He shows Perry the page of the manual showing the Carnival Caper simulation, which says, "Meet me here! P.")
Parenthesis: You think this cage can stop me?! (tears the gate off, grabs the agents and laughs) I have you now!
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, great! Karen's here! We're saved!
Maggie: We're dead!
Doofenshmirtz: Gwan, Karen, do your thing.
Parenthesis: Oh. I forgot the feline. Susan, Jim, Tracy, Connie, take the cat out.
Karen: Reeeeor!
(Cut to reveal Karen karate chopping all the fleas.)
Parenthesis: What?! No! You'll pay for that!
(A fight occurs between Karen and Parenthesis.)
Parenthesis: Wah! (gasps) My slipper!  Ahh! NO!
Karen: (screeches)
Parenthesis: Hey! Ow! Aw! Ow! (sighs) Oh, well, you guys do work well together. But to no avail. I may be boo-boo'd and bruised, but I still have control over OWCA's agents! Ha! And it all becomes permanent in just five more seconds! (something is heard falling from the sky. It is the fan falling on Parenthesis.) AAAAAAH!!
(Cut to the Bug Trio on the airplane.)
Wendell: Hey, Napoleon, our motor came off.
(Cut back to Parenthesis still screaming. His remote is destroyed ending all the fleas' control over the agents, who let go of Monogram and Carl, feeling embarrassed. Cut back to the destroyed Parenthesis robot.)
Doofenshmirtz: (gathering the flea with tweezers) And gotcha!
(Doof drops the flea into a pill capsule, which is sealed closed by Perry.)
Major Monogram: Well done, team! You've earned those black hat bands. You are now officially OWCA agents!
(The agents applaud them.)
(Cut to the Bug Trio.)
Wendell: Look, Napoleon. They got to be agents.
Napoleon: Yes, and not us. (The plane begins to plummet.) Whoa! (sighs) We should take this as a sign. (takes up a violin) Bugs are not meant to be agents. (plays "Nearer My God to Thee") Gentlemen, it's been a pleasure serving with you. (The wind carries them off.) Whoa!
(Cut to Doof.)
Doofenshmirtz: Oh, hey, now that we're agents, when do I get to use this thing? (launches a rocket launcher) Whoa! (The rockets crash into the OWCA headquarters.) Oops, sorry.
Major Monogram: Carl?
Carl: There's still money in the budget, sir.
(Cut to the Bug Trio still alive.)
Napoleon: I don't believe it! We've landed safely! I take this as a sign! We will be the best agents that OWCA has ev—
(The building explodes.)
♪ It's the OWCA Files (yeah!) ♪
♪ (the OWCA Files)
♪ It's the OWCA Files ♪
♪ (the OWCA Files) ♪
♪ It's the OWCA Files (the Organization Without a Cool Acronym!) ♪
♪ (the OWCA Files) ♪
♪ It's the OWCA Files ♪
♪ (the OWCA Files) ♪

End Credits
(Open on the newly restored Flynn-Fletcher house. Cut to inside. The family are having dinner. After a few seconds of silence, Phineas looks under his plate.)
Phineas: Are these new plates? I mean, they look the same, but it feels as though they were replaced by exact copies.
(beat)
Ferb: Yes, and the tree in our backyard is now a pine.
(Cut to outside revealing the iconic tree replaced by a pine tree.)



